New York University Office of Undergraduate Admissions
383 Lafayette Street, New York, NY 10003 • Phone: 212-998-4500
www.nyu.edu/admissions/undergraduate-admissions.html

This section of the College of Arts and Science Bulletin is primarily intended for our matriculated students. It outlines crucial policies on transfer credit and also provides detailed information on Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and other officially approved examinations that may be used (subject to restrictions noted below) to apply advanced standing credit to one’s NYU transcript and program of study. In some cases, the credits earned from these examinations can be used to satisfy various College Core Curriculum and/or major and minor requirements.

Students who intend to apply to, or are in the process of applying to, the College of Arts and Science should consult the website of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and/or contact that office directly (see above). That website provides information for applicants, both those applying as first-year and transfer students, that includes but is not limited to:

Application forms, procedures, and deadlines, including early decision.
Required standardized testing.
Requirements and procedures for applicants with international credentials.
The financial aid application.
Campus visits/tours.
Special (visiting) and post-graduate students.
The official enrollment process, which begins with accepting the University's offer of admission and paying the required, nonrefundable tuition deposit.
Information on retention and graduation rates, and also on employment after graduation. Please search for these and other “NYU Facts” on the Admissions website above.
COLLEGE CREDITS TAKEN IN SECONDARY SCHOOL BY FIRST-YEAR MATRICULANTS IN CAS
Credit may be awarded to students who completed college courses while in high school (credits from either a community college or a four-year college or university are acceptable), provided that: they received a grade of C or better in the courses; an official transcript from the college or university is received; corresponding courses are offered at NYU; and the courses are applicable to a student's degree program requirements. Note that students who matriculate as first years will not receive transfer credit for post-secondary expository writing courses, since they are required to complete at least one first-year writing course at NYU. Note also that students who enter CAS as first years may be awarded no more than 32 advanced standing credits; this limit includes both credits from Advanced Placement and similar examinations and previous college credits.

TRANSFER STUDENT MATRICULANTS IN CAS
External Transfer Students
When an external transfer applicant is admitted to the College, the applicant's official college transcript(s) is (are) examined carefully to determine how much, if any, advanced standing will be granted. In granting advanced standing the following are considered: the content, complexity, and grading standards of courses taken elsewhere; individual grades and grade averages attained by the applicant; the suitability of courses taken elsewhere for the program of study chosen at NYU; and the degree of preparation that completed courses provide for more advanced study in the College. Credits (points) toward the degree are awarded only for transfer course grades of C or better, provided that: (1) the credits integrate into the selected program of study and (2) the courses were completed within the past ten years.

Quarter hours will be converted to semester hours to determine the number of credits transferable to NYU. Credits based on semester hours will be transferred at face value to NYU.

External transfer students must fulfill the residency requirement. All degree candidates are subject to the following residency requirement: They must complete at least 64 consecutive points of course work in residence at the College immediately preceding the date of graduation, and are permitted to transfer a maximum of 64 credits to NYU. (The CAS baccalaureate degree requires 128 points.) Only courses coded as UA (and, in some cases, GA) count toward the 64-point residency requirement; courses taken in other NYU units or at NYU portal campuses do not count as residency, but do count toward the baccalaureate degree.

A tentative statement of advanced standing is provided to each external transfer student upon notification of admission to the College. A final statement of advanced standing is provided during the student's first semester of matriculation. Requests for reevaluation of transfer credit must be made within the semester during which the final statement of advanced standing is received. Thereafter, a student's advanced standing credits may be changed only with the written permission of the CAS Office of the Dean.

Internal Transfer Students
Students who wish to transfer from one school to another within the University must file an internal transfer application online prior to the published application deadline (see www.nyu.edu/admissions/undergraduate-admissions.html for deadlines). Internal transfer applications can be submitted via the Albert portal online. Students may apply for an internal transfer no sooner than the start of their second consecutive semester of full-time study, i.e., students must complete their first year in the NYU school where they accepted the offer of admission and matriculated. The latest semester in which one can apply for an internal transfer admission is the end of the second year of study at NYU, i.e., the latest students can begin their study at a new NYU school or portal campus is the first semester of their junior year. Typically, applications to transfer between NYU schools, colleges, or campuses are not accepted during or after the junior year. In addition, students are rarely permitted to transfer between NYU schools when their intended major (or a similar major) is already offered in their current school.

READMISSION OF FORMER CAS STUDENTS
To remain formally matriculated in the College, students who are not enrolled in courses must apply for and be granted an official leave of absence. Students who are neither enrolled in courses nor on an approved leave of absence in the fall and/or spring terms are no longer matriculated in the College and must apply for readmission; they cannot simply enroll in the term following their unauthorized leave.

Applications for readmission and submission deadlines are available online at www.nyu.edu/admissions/undergraduate-admissions.html.

Students who have attended another college or university since their last attendance at New York University must complete the regular application for transfer admission and submit an official transcript.

SAT SUBJECT EXAMINATIONS AND THE COLLEGE CORE CURRICULUM
SAT Subject Examination1	Score	Core Requirement Satisfied
Chinese2	700 and up	Foreign language
French3	650 and up	Foreign language
German3	650 and up	Foreign language
Hebrew (Modern)2	700 and up	Foreign language
Italian3	650 and up	Foreign language
Japanese2	700 and up	Foreign language
Korean2	700 and up	Foreign language
Latin2	650 and up	Foreign language
Mathematics Level 1 or 24	700 and up	Quantitative Reasoning
Spanish3	660 and up	Foreign Language
     1No credit is awarded for any examination on this table. Some of the foreign language examinations are offered both with and without a listening component; Core exemption (and, if applicable, placement) scores are the same. Note: The College Board discontinued all subject exams as of January 2021 in the U.S. and after June 2021 internationally.
     2Scores in these languages may only be used for Core exemption, not for placement. Students who intend to register for any of these languages at NYU must take the CAS placement examination.
     3Scores in these languages may be used either for Core exemption or for placement in the proper level of study. Consult the website of the relevant CAS language department or the CAS Office of Academic Affairs, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8110. Spanish results over 18 months old cannot be used for placement.
     4A score of 650 or better on either mathematics subject examination places students into Calculus I (MATH-UA 121) or Mathematics for Economics I (MATH-UA 131; formerly MATH-UA 211) if they intend to register for these courses. An SAT general test mathematics score of 670 or higher also serves as a prerequisite for MATH-UA 121 and 131, but cannot be used for exemption from the Quantitative Reasoning requirement.

ADVANCED STANDING CREDIT BY EXAMINATION (INCLUDING INTERNATIONAL MATURITY EXAMINATIONS)
The Advanced Placement (AP) Program (College Entrance Examination Board), the International Baccalaureate (IB) Program, and the results of some foreign maturity or leaving certificate examinations allow students to apply college-level, advanced standing credit toward the CAS baccalaureate degree, subject to the approval of the College. Any credits awarded must be compatible with the CAS liberal arts curriculum; e.g., no credit is awarded for examinations in studio art or business. Minimum scores and other policies are noted below, as well as course equivalencies (and applicability to CAS programs of study) that the College has approved.

The maximum number of credits allowed toward the degree requirements of the College that are a result of any possible combination of nonresident special examination programs (plus previous coursework, if applicable and approved) shall not exceed a total of 32.

Students cannot earn credit for the same subject matter in any combination of AP, IB, A Level, and/or other international exams. Note that advanced standing credit (whether AP or international) may be awarded for examinations in the subject of “English literature” or “English language and literature,” but is never awarded for any exam that is wholly in the subject of “English language.”

The AP program is detailed further below; the number of credits awarded per AP examination (for scores of 4 and 5 only) varies by subject area. This overview begins with international examinations.

International Baccalaureate (IB) Program
The College recognizes, for advanced standing credit, higher-level (HL) examinations passed with grades of 6 or 7. No credit is granted for standard-level (SL) examinations. Official reports must be submitted to the Undergraduate Admissions Processing Center for review. See the chart below for details on creditable IB results (8 points per approved examination).

Maturity Certificate Examinations
The College will consider the results of certain foreign maturity certificate examinations for advanced standing credit. They are:

A Levels and Cambridge Pre-U
Caribbean Advanced Proficiency Examination (CAPE)
French Baccalauréat
German Abitur
Italian Maturità
Federal Swiss Maturity Certificate
CAS does not award credit for any other maturity certificate examinations.

Official reports must be submitted to the Undergraduate Admissions Processing Center. These documents will be added to the student record, but advanced standing credit for all examinations other than AP and IB will be awarded by the College Advising Center, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8130.

See the chart below for details on creditable A Level and Cambridge Pre-U test scores (8 points per approved subject examination). The other international maturity examinations accepted by the College award 4 to 8 points each.

Minimum scores for receiving credit are:

A Levels: B
Cambridge Pre-U: M2
CAPE: II (out of VII)
French Baccalauréat: see note*
German Abitur: 10 (out of 15). Credit is only awarded for written exams (schr.), not for oral (mdl.)
Italian Maturità: 90 (out of 100)**
Swiss Matura: 4.5 (out of 6)
*Note on the French Baccalauréat: for students who completed their secondary education under the old examination system, the minimum grade for receiving credit is 12 (out of 20) with a coefficient of 5 or higher. For students who completed or will complete their secondary education under the new Baccalauréat examination system (which was first offered to students who completed their secondary education in 2021), the College awards credit as follows:

The minimum creditable grade remains 12 (out of 20), but minimum coefficients vary by examination. The below are required examinations in the new Baccalauréat system.
French Literature: students must present a score of at least 12 and a coefficient of at least 5 on both the written and oral components to earn 4 elective credits toward the undergraduate degree (and to satisfy the Core foreign language requirement). The subject matter is at the FREN-UA 1## level, but there is no course equivalency.
Philosophy: the minimum creditable coefficient is always 8. Students who earn a score of 12 or 13 are awarded 4 elective credits toward the degree (no course equivalency). Students who earn a score of 14 through 20 are awarded 4 points equivalent to Central Problems in Philosophy (PHIL-UA 1), and should consult the Department of Philosophy if they are interested in a major or minor in this subject.
Two subject area examinations (spécialités), chosen by students and taken in the final year: the minimum creditable score on each examination is 12, and the minimum creditable coefficient for each is 16. Each specialty test awards 8 elective credits toward the degree (16 total) with no course equivalencies. No credits are awarded for a spécialité examination taken in the penultimate year of secondary schooling. The only exceptions for course equivalencies and credits are in mathematics, as follows:
The regular examination in mathematics awards 4 points equivalent to Calculus I (MATH-UA 121) and 4 points of elective credit (no course equivalency) toward the degree.
Students who take both the regular examination in mathematics and the examination in maths expertes in the final year earn 4 points equivalent to Discrete Mathematics (MATH-UA 120) and 4 points equivalent to Calculus I (MATH-UA 121). They do not receive 16 spécialité points (8 for each examination).
Credits for these examinations satisfy Quantitative Reasoning in the Core.
Students majoring in economics cannot use these credits for any or all of the Mathematics for Economics I, II, III sequence (MATH-UA 131, 132, 133; formerly MATH-UA 211, 212, 213).
Consult the website of the Department of Mathematics for information on course placement, which may possibly be considered for non-creditable scores. (Details are forthcoming.)

 **Policy on the Italian Maturità: Students must earn a 90 or higher on the final Maturità exam to be considered for advanced standing credit. Credit is awarded on the basis of scores on part one (a test of written Italian) and part two (one subject tested in depth, which rotates from year to year). Each of these two sections can award 4 points, with a minimum score requirement of 13 (out of a possible 15). Neither part three of the written test nor the oral portion of the exam awards any points.

ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAM
The College participates in the Advanced Placement (AP) Program of the College Entrance Examination Board. In accordance with New York University policy, students may receive college credit toward their degree for test results of 5 or 4, depending on the subject examination.

The College awards AP credit in liberal arts subjects that correspond to the disciplines taught in CAS, and the College’s academic departments and programs regularly review and make final decisions on acceptance of AP credits—in some cases with the review and approval of the CAS Committee on Undergraduate Curriculum. Some AP exams are deemed the equivalent of specific CAS courses and are approved to count toward the College’s majors and minors. Other exams do not have a specific course equivalent and cannot apply toward a major or minor, but award elective credit that students can count toward the 128 points required for the baccalaureate degree. In many cases, students receiving credit toward their degree are advised not to take the corresponding college-level course for credit. If they do, they will lose the AP credit. See the chart further below for details on creditable AP test scores. The chart immediately below also lists those AP examinations for which College Core Curriculum exemptions are granted.

Please note that the process of departmental and faculty review and approval in the previous paragraph applies to all advanced standing credit by examination in the College.

ADVANCED PLACEMENT CREDIT AND THE COLLEGE CORE CURRICULUM
Note: a 4 or 5 on any foreign language AP satisfies the Core language requirement.

AP Examination	Score	Core Requirement Satisfied
Biology	4, 5	Physical Science and Life Science
Chemistry	4, 5	Physical Science and Life Science
Environmental Science	4, 5	Physical Science
Mathematics AB	4, 5	Quantitative Reasoning
Mathematics BC	4, 5	Quantitative Reasoning
Physics 1 or Physics 2	4, 5	Physical Science
Physics 1 and Physics 2	4, 5	Physical Science and Life Science
Physics C—Mech. and Physics C—E&M	4, 5	Physical Science and Life Science
Physics C—Mech.	4, 5	Physical Science
Physics C—E&M	4, 5	Physical Science
Statistics	4, 5	Quantitative Reasoning
ADVANCED PLACEMENT EQUIVALENCIES1
AP Examination	Score	Points	Course Equivalent
African American Studies	4, 5	4	No course equivalent10,23
Art History	4	4	No course equivalent2
Art History	5	4	ARTH-UA 103
Biology	4, 5	8	BIOL-UA 11, 124
Calculus AB	4, 5	4	MATH-UA 1215
Calculus BC	4	4	MATH-UA 1215
Calculus BC	5	8	MATH-UA 121, 1225
Chemistry	4, 5	8	CHEM-UA 125, 126 / CHEM-UA 127, 1286
Chinese Language and Culture	4, 5	4	EAST-UA 2047
Computer Science A	4, 5	4	CSCI-UA 101
Computer Science Principles	4, 5	4	CSCI-UA 2 or CSCI-UA 38
English Literature	4, 5	4	No course equivalent
English Language	–	–	No course equivalent
Environmental Science	4, 5	4	No course equivalent9
European History	4, 5	4	No course equivalent10
French Language and Culture	4, 5	4	FREN-UA 30
German Language and Culture	4, 5	4	GERM-UA 411
Human Geography	–	–	No course equivalent
Italian Language and Culture	4, 5	4	ITAL-UA 12
Japanese Language and Culture	4, 5	4	EAST-UA 2507
Latin	4, 5	4	CLASS-UA 612
Macroeconomics	4, 5	4	ECON-UA 113
Microeconomics	4, 5	4	ECON-UA 213
Music Theory	4, 5	4	No course equivalent14
Physics 1	4, 5	4	No course equivalent15
Physics 2	4, 5	4	No course equivalent15
Physics C—Mech	4, 5	4	PHYS-UA 11 or PHYS-UA 9115
Physics C—Electricity and Magnetism	4, 5	4	PHYS-UA 12 or PHYS-UA 9315
Politics (U.S. Gov't and Politics)	4, 5	4	No course equivalent16
Politics (Comp. Gov't and Politics)	4, 5	4	No course equivalent16
Precalculus	4, 5	4	MATH-UA 922
Psychology	4, 5	4	PSYCH-UA 1
Spanish Language and Culture	4	4	SPAN-UA 417
Spanish Language and Culture	5	4	SPAN-UA 418
Spanish Literature and Culture	4, 5	4	SPAN-UA 50 (formerly 100)19
Statistics	4, 5	4	PSYCH-UA 1020, 21
Studio Art	–	–	No course equivalent
U.S. History	4, 5	4	No course equivalent10
World History	4, 5	4	No course equivalent10
     1Students cannot earn credit for the same subject matter in any combination of AP, IB, A Level, and/or other international exams. No credit is awarded for the AP Seminar and Research courses in the AP Capstone program.
     2Does not count towards the major or minor in art history or exempt students from ARTH-UA 10.
     3Students who major in art history are exempt from ARTH-UA 10, and the AP credit counts as one course for the major. AP credit never counts toward the minor. Prior to fall 2021, the AP equivalency was for ARTH-UA 1 and 2.
     4Prehealth students cannot use AP credits to place out of BIOL-UA 11, 12. Students who are not prehealth can apply these credits towards majors and minors in the Department of Biology.
     5Students who score below a 4 on the Calculus BC exam but earn a 4 or 5 on the AB subscore are awarded 4 points, equivalent to MATH-UA 121. Economics majors cannot use AP credit in calculus for any or all of the Mathematics for Economics I, II, III sequence (MATH-UA 131, 132, 133; formerly MATH-UA 211, 212, 213).
     6Does not count toward any majors or minors in the Departments of Biology and Chemistry, and cannot serve as a co- or prerequisite to any course in either department. Prehealth students cannot use AP credits to place out of CHEM-UA 125, 126/127, 128. Not equivalent to CHEM-UA 129, which is taught at a higher level than the AP course.
     7AP credits in Chinese and Japanese satisfy the Core requirement in foreign language but cannot be used for placement in the correct level of study. Students who plan to register for Chinese or Japanese at NYU must take the CAS placement exam. Credits cannot be applied to the East Asian studies major or minor.
     8Can be used to count towards the minor in Web Programming and Applications. Does not count toward any major in computer science.
     9Satisfies Physical Science in the College Core Curriculum. Credit does not count toward the major or minor in environmental studies.
     10Credit can count as an elective toward the history major but not toward the history minor. No more than 4 AP credits can be applied toward the major.
     11Credit does not reduce the number of courses required for the German major.
     12Students wishing to continue Latin must consult the classics department for proper placement. AP credit will not reduce the number of courses required for the major or minor.
     13AP credit in economics satisfies the ECON-UA 1 and 2 requirements of: the major and minor in economics; the major in international relations; and the minor in business studies.
     14Counts as elective credit toward the baccalaureate degree, but the credits do not count toward the music major or minor.
     15Students may receive credit for both Physics 1 and 2 (algebra-based) or for both of the Physics C (calculus-based) exams. They cannot receive credit for two exams that duplicate material (e.g., Physics 2 and Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism). Prehealth students cannot use AP credits to place out of PHYS-UA 11, 12. Physics 1 and/or 2 do not count toward any majors or minors in the Department of Physics. Potential physics majors may discuss their Physics C credits with that department for possible placement out of PHYS-UA 91 and 93 (but not out of the associated labs PHYS-UA 71 and 72). Physics majors granted this exemption are required to take one or more additional advanced PHYS-UA electives. Students who are not prehealth may apply Physics C credits toward one or both semesters of the Department of Chemistry's General Physics I and II requirement. Note well that beginning in fall 2024, the two Physics C exams will always award 4 credits each (instead of the former "5 or 3" depending on PHYS-UA course equivalency) and will always initially be equivalent to PHYS-UA 11 and PHYS-UA 12. For students who intend to major or minor in the Department of Physics and receive permission to count C exam credits toward the major lecture sequence of PHYS-UA 91 and PHYS-UA 93, this department will forward a memo to the Office of the Registrar: 3 credits from each exam will count as a direct equivalency to PHYS-UA 91 or 93 as appropriate, with the remaining 1 credit coded as a general PHYS-UA elective that counts toward the total 128 credits required for the baccalaureate degree but cannot count toward any departmental major or minor in the College.
          16Students may count eight AP points (the equivalent of two courses) toward the politics major and four AP points (the equivalent of one course) toward the minor. None of these credits can substitute for any specific departmental course or requirement (such as one of the core requirements); they simply count as generic POL-UA credit.
     17Students who are not native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish are required to take the CAS online language placement exam to confirm placement into Advanced Spanish (SPAN-UA 50; formerly Advanced Grammar and Composition, SPAN-UA 100). Students who score less than 59 on the online test will be required to take Advanced Spanish Conversation (SPAN-UA 60; formerly SPAN-UA 101) before enrolling in SPAN-UA 50. On the first day of classes they will also take an in-class exam to finalize proper course placement. This may result in dropping to a lower level and losing the AP credit. AP scores over 18 months old cannot be used for placement. Students who are native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish will need to take a written assessment with the director of the language program (spanish.dlp@nyu.edu) to finalize placement.
     18Students who are not native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish may register for Advanced Spanish (SPAN-UA 50; formerly Advanced Grammar and Composition, SPAN-UA 100). On the first day of classes they will take an in-class exam to finalize proper course placement. This may result in dropping to a lower level and losing the AP credit. AP scores over 18 months old cannot be used for placement. Students who are native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish will need to take a written assessment with the director of the language program (spanish.dlp@nyu.edu) to finalize placement.
     19Students who intend to continue studying Spanish must first take a special, advanced language placement evaluation through the Spanish department (not the online placement or usual written exemption exam) and consult with the director of the Spanish language program (spanish.dlp@nyu.edu).
     20Satisfies the first semester of the psychology major's statistics requirement and counts toward the major.
     21Does not count toward the majors in economics, international relations, or sociology, or toward the minor in business studies.
     22Satisfies the prerequisite for MATH-UA 121, 131, 120, and 140 (no placement exam needed). Can never count toward any UA major/minor or to any UACORE requirement.
     23In some cases, credit for the exam in African American Studies may be applicable to certain majors and/or minors in the Department of Social and Cultural Analysis; students should consult with that department.

 

INTERNATIONAL BACCALAUREATE EQUIVALENCIES1, 2
IB HL Examination	Score     	Points     	Course Equivalent
Analysis and Approaches (mathematics; first examined in 2021)	6	8	MATH-UA 121 (for 4 of the points)2A
Analysis and Approaches (mathematics; first examined in 2021)	7	8	MATH-UA 121 and MATH-UA 1222A
Applications and Interpretation (mathematics; first examined in 2021)	6, 7	8	MATH-UA 121 (for 4 of the points)2A
Arabic A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Biology	6, 7	8	BIOL-UA 11, 124
Business and Management	–	–	No course equivalent
Chemistry	6, 7	8	CHEM-UA 125, 126/127, 1285
Chinese A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent6
Chinese B	6, 7	8	EAST-UA 203, 2046
Classical Greek	6, 7	8	CLASS-UA 9, 107
Computer Science	6, 7	8	CSCI-UA 101, 1028
Dance	–	–	No course equivalent
Design Technology	–	–	No course equivalent
Economics	6, 7	8	ECON-UA 1, 29
English Literature A or English Language and Literature A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent10
Film	–	–	No course equivalent
French A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
French B	6, 7	8	FREN-UA 11, 12
Geography	6, 7	8	No course equivalent
German A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
German B	6, 7	8	GERM-UA 3, 4
Global Politics	6, 7	8	No course equivalent11
Hebrew A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Hebrew B	6, 7	8	HBRJD-UA 3, 43
Hindi A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
History	6, 7	8	No course equivalent12
Indonesian A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent
Information Technology in a Global Society	–	–	No course equivalent
Italian A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Italian B	6, 7	8	ITAL-UA 11, 12
Japanese A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent6
Japanese B	6, 7	8	EAST-UA 249, 2506
Korean A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent6
Korean B	6, 7	8	EAST-UA 256, 2576
Latin	6, 7	8	CLASS-UA 5, 67
Mathematics (discontinued; last examined in 2020)
6, 7	8	MATH-UA 121 (for 4 of the points)13
Music	–	–	No course equivalent
Persian A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Philosophy	6, 7	8	PHIL-UA 1 (for 4 of the points if a 7 is earned)16
Physics	6, 7	8	No course equivalent14
Portuguese A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Portuguese B	6, 7	8	PORT-UA 3, 43
Psychology	6, 7	8	PSYCH-UA 1 (for 4 of the points)15
Social and Cultural Anthropology	6, 7	8	ANTH-UA 1 (for 4 of the points)
Russian A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Russian B	6, 7	8	RUSSN-UA 3, 43
Spanish A	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Spanish B	6, 7	8	SPAN-UA 3, 43A
Theater	–	–	No course equivalent
Turkish A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Urdu A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent3
Vietnamese A or B	6, 7	8	No course equivalent
Visual Arts	–	–	No course equivalent
     1Credit is only awarded for High Level (HL) exams, never for Standard Level (SL). Students cannot earn credit for the same subject matter in any combination of AP, IB, A Level, and/or other international exams.
     2IB HL 6, 7 in any foreign language satisfies the College Core Curriculum requirement. A language denoted as “B” was studied as a second language; one denoted as “A” is one's native language, or a language in which one has near-native fluency. “B” language credits are intermediate level and “A” language credits are post-intermediate. Students with “A” language credits who intend to register for the language must first take the CAS placement exam or consult with the department.
     2AThese subjects were examined for the first time in May 2021; they replace a. Mathematics (last examined in November 2020, now discontinued) and b. Further Mathematics (last examined in May 2020 and also discontinued). All satisfy the Core Quantitative Reasoning requirement. Students using a score of 7 on the Analysis and Approaches exam to enter Calculus III are advised to review polar coordinates and parametric equations. Students majoring in economics cannot use credits for any or all of the Mathematics for Economics I, II, III sequence (MATH-UA 131, 132, 133; formerly MATH-UA 211, 212, 213).
     3Students who intend to register for this language at NYU must take the CAS placement examination; the IB credits cannot be used for placement. Spanish IB scores over 18 months old cannot be used for placement.
     3AStudents who are not native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish may register for Advanced Spanish (SPAN-UA 50; formerly Advanced Grammar and Composition, SPAN-UA 100). On the first day of classes they will take an in-class exam to finalize proper course placement. This may result in dropping to a lower level and losing the IB credit. IB scores over 18 months old cannot be used for placement. Students who are native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish will need to take a written assessment with the director of the language program (spanish.dlp@nyu.edu) to finalize placement.
     4Satisfies Physical Science and Life Science in the Core. Prehealth students cannot use IB credits to place out of BIOL-UA 11, 12. Students who are not prehealth should consult the Department of Biology about possibly counting these credits towards majors and minors in that department.
     5Satisfies Physical Science and Life Science in the Core. IB credit in chemistry will not count toward any majors or minors in the Departments of Biology and Chemistry, and cannot serve as a co- or prerequisite to any course in either department. Prehealth students cannot use IB Chemistry to place out of CHEM-UA 125, 126/127, 128. Not equivalent to CHEM-UA 129, which is taught at a higher level than in the IB program.
     6Students who intend to register for Chinese, Japanese, or Korean at NYU must take the CAS placement examination; the IB credits cannot be used for placement. IB credits cannot be applied to the East Asian studies major or minor.
     7Students who intend to register for ancient Greek or Latin at NYU must consult the classics department for proper placement. IB credit will not reduce the number of courses required for a classics major or minor.
     8Students planning a major or minor in computer science must consult with the department about proper placement and possible counting of IB credits towards departmental requirements.
     9IB credit in economics satisfies the ECON-UA 1 and 2 requirements of: the major and minor in economics; the major in international relations; and the minor in business studies.
     10No credit is awarded for any English B exam. Anglophone students are not permitted to take any English A examination.
     11Students may count eight IB points (the equivalent of two courses) towards the politics major and four IB points (the equivalent of one course) towards the minor. None of these credits can substitute for any specific departmental course or requirement (such as one of the core requirements); they simply count as generic POL-UA credit.
     12Credit can count as an elective toward the history major but not toward the history minor. No more than 4 of the 8 IB credits can be applied toward the major.
     13This subject was examined for the final time in November 2020; it has been replaced by a. Analysis and Approaches and b. Applications and Interpretation (both administered for the first time in May 2021). Satisfies the Core Quantitative Reasoning requirement. Students majoring in economics cannot use credits for any or all of the Mathematics for Economics I, II, III sequence (MATH-UA 131, 132, 133; formerly MATH-UA 211, 212, 213). For Further Mathematics (last examined in May 2020 and now discontinued), students must consult with the Department of Mathematics for exact course equivalencies.
     14Satisfies Physical Science and Life Science in the Core. Cannot count toward any major or minor in the Department of Physics or the Department of Chemistry.
     15Majors and minors in psychology can use four of the points to exempt from PSYCH-UA 1 and to count as one of the ten courses required for the major or as one of the four courses required for the minor. The other four points cannot be applied towards the major or minor.
     16Students with a grade of 7 on this examination may apply 4 of the 8 points toward the philosophy major or minor as a required introductory course; a grade below that level does not count toward the major or minor as the equivalent of PHIL-UA 1.

ADVANCED LEVEL (“A LEVEL”) EQUIVALENCIES (WITH PRE-U)1, 2, 3
A-Level Examination	       Score          	Points   	Course Equivalent
Afrikaans	B or higher	8	No course equivalent
Arabic	B or higher	8	No course equivalent4
Art, History of	B or higher	8	See note5
Biology	B or higher	8	BIOL-UA 11, 126
Business	–	–	No course equivalent
Chemistry	B or higher	8	CHEM-UA 125, 126/127, 1287
China Studies (English or Chinese)	–	–	No course equivalent8
Chinese	B or higher	8	EAST-UA 203, 2049
Classical Greek	B or higher	8	CLASS-UA 9, 1010
Classical Studies	B or higher	8	No course equivalent11
Computer Science	B or higher	8	CSCI-UA 101, 10212
Economics	B or higher	8	ECON-UA 1, 213
English Literature	B or higher	8	No course equivalent14
French	B or higher	8	FREN-UA 11, 12
Geography	B or higher	8	No course equivalent
German	B or higher	8	GERM-UA 3, 4
Government and Politics	B or higher	8	No course equivalent15
Hindi	B or higher	8	No course equivalent4
History	B or higher	8	No course equivalent16
Italian	B or higher	8	ITAL-UA 11, 12
Latin	B or higher	8	CLASS-UA 5, 610
Marathi	B or higher	8	No course equivalent
Mathematics	B or higher	8	MATH-UA 121 (for 4 of the points)17
Music	–	–	No course equivalent
Philosophy	B or higher	8	PHIL-UA 1 (for 4 of the points; only for a score of A)18
Physics	B or higher	8	No course equivalent19
Portuguese	B or higher	8	PORT-UA 3, 44
Psychology	B or higher	8	PSYCH-UA 1 (for 4 of the points)20
Religious Studies	B or higher	8	No course equivalent21
Russian	–	–	Contact department24
Sociology	B or higher	8	No course equivalent22
Spanish	B or higher	8	SPAN-UA 3, 44A
Statistics	B or higher	8	No course equivalent23
Tamil	B or higher	8	No course equivalent
Telugu	B or higher	8	No course equivalent
Urdu	B or higher	8	No course equivalent4
     1Students cannot earn credit for the same subject matter in any combination of AP, IB, A Level, and/or other international exams. No credit is awarded for Advanced Subsidiary (AS) Level examinations or for the Seminar and Research courses in the AP/Cambridge Capstone program. In Singapore, only A Level examinations designated as H2 or H3 can receive credit. H3 credit is subject to review and is generally awarded only if student does not have H2 credit in same subject. No student may earn credit for H2 and H3 results in the same subject.
     2CAS awards 8 credits for many of the Cambridge Pre-U examinations in liberal arts and science subjects that parallel the A Level offerings. The range of acceptable scores (lowest to highest) is: M2, M1, D3, D2, D1.
     3An A Level score of B or higher, or a Pre-U score of M2 or higher, in any foreign language satisfies the College Core Curriculum requirement.
     4Students who intend to register for this language at NYU must take the CAS placement examination; the A Level/Pre-U credits cannot be used for placement.
     4AStudents who are not native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish may register for Advanced Spanish (SPAN-UA 50; formerly Advanced Grammar and Composition, SPAN-UA 100). On the first day of classes they will take an in-class exam to finalize proper course placement. This may result in dropping to a lower level and losing the A Level credit. A Level results over 18 months old cannot be used for placement. Students who are native speakers and intend to continue studying Spanish will need to take a written assessment with the director of the language program (spanish.dlp@nyu.edu) to finalize placement.
     5A score of B on History of Art does not count toward the major in art history or exempt students from ARTH-UA 10; the 8 points are electives in ARTH-UA that count toward the baccalaureate degree. A score of A exempts art history majors from ARTH-UA 10, and 4 of the 8 credits count as one course toward the major; the other 4 points are an ARTH-UA elective that counts toward the baccalaureate degree. A Level credits never count toward the minor. Prior to fall 2021, the A Level equivalency was for ARTH-UA 1 and 2.
     6Satisfies Physical Science and Life Science in the Core. Prehealth students cannot use A Level/Pre-U credits to place out of BIOL-UA 11, 12. Students who are not prehealth should consult the Department of Biology about possibly counting these credits towards majors and minors in that department.
     7Satisfies Physical Science and Life Science in the Core. A Level/Pre-U credit in chemistry will not count toward any majors or minors in the Departments of Biology and Chemistry and cannot serve as a co- or prerequisite to any course in either department. Prehealth students cannot use A Level/Pre-U Chemistry to place out of CHEM-UA 125, 126/127, 128. Not equivalent to CHEM-UA 129.
     8No credit is awarded for China Studies, as part of the final assessment/grade is an independent study/research paper.
     9Students who intend to register for Chinese at NYU must take the CAS placement examination; the A Level/Pre-U credits cannot be used for placement. Credits cannot be applied to the East Asian Studies major or minor.
     10Students who intend to register for ancient Greek or Latin at NYU must consult the classics department for proper placement. Credits cannot count toward a classics major or minor.
     11Not a course in classical languages. Students should consult with the director of undergraduate studies in the Department of Classics about possible counting of credits toward the major/minor.
     12Students planning a major or minor in computer science must consult with that department about proper placement and possible counting of A Level/Pre-U credits towards departmental requirements.
     13A Level credit in economics satisfies the ECON-UA 1 and 2 requirements of: the major and minor in economics; the major in international relations; and the minor in business studies.
     14No credit is awarded for English Language.
     15Students may count eight A Level points (the equivalent of two courses) towards the politics major and four A Level points (the equivalent of one course) towards the minor. None of these credits can substitute for any specific departmental course or requirement (such as one of the core requirements); they simply count as generic POL-UA credit.
     16Credit can count as an elective toward the history major but not toward the history minor. No more than 4 of the 8 A Level credits can be applied toward the major.
     17Satisfies Quantitative Reasoning in the Core. Students majoring in economics cannot use credits for all or part of the Mathematics for Economics I, II, III sequence (MATH-UA 131, 132, 133; formerly MATH-UA 211, 212, 213). For Further or Pure Mathematics, consult the Department of Mathematics for course equivalencies.
     18Students with a grade of A on this examination may apply 4 of the 8 points toward the philosophy major or minor as a required introductory course; a grade below that level does not count toward the major or minor as the equivalent of PHIL-UA 1. In addition, a grade of D3 or higher on the Pre-U examination in Philosophy and Theology allows students to apply 4 of the 8 points toward the philosophy major or minor as a required introductory course; a grade below that level does not count toward the philosophy major or minor as the equivalent of PHIL-UA 1. Note well that the Department of Religious Studies does not accept the 4 points in theology from this Pre-U test toward its major or minor.
     19Satisfies Physical Science and Life Science in the Core. Cannot count toward any major or minor in the Department of Physics or the Department of Chemistry.
     20Majors and minors in psychology can use four of the credits to exempt from PSYCH-UA 1 and to count toward the major or minor. The other four points cannot be applied to major or minor requirements.
     21A Level/Pre-U credits in this subject cannot be counted toward the religious studies major or minor.
     22Sociology majors need departmental approval to count four of the eight credits toward the major as an elective. The credits never exempt students from any of the introductory courses in Sociology (SOC-UA 1, 2, 3).
     23Satisfies Quantitative Reasoning in the Core. A Level credit in statistics does not count toward the majors in economics, international relations, or sociology, or toward the minor in business studies. Students may consult with the Departments of Mathematics and Psychology for possible course equivalency. Students who present results in more than one A Level mathematics exam (including statistics) cannot receive the full 8 credits for each exam.
     24To receive A Level credit, students must contact the Department of Russian and Slavic Studies and be tested by a language instructor.