ACADEMIC PROGRAM (INCLUDING DROPPING, ADDING, WITHDRAWING FROM, AND AUDITING COURSES)
The programs and courses offered at the College of Arts and Science are designed for students who attend classes offered during the day on a full-time basis. A full-time schedule normally consists of 16 points per term, or 32 points per year, which enables a student to complete the entire program of 128 points in four years. Minimal full-time status entails completing at least 12 points per term, or 24 points per year. Students who wish to attend part-time should speak with their academic adviser in the College Advising Center, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8130. Such status will be granted only when there is good and sufficient reason for part-time study. Failure to complete a minimum of 24 points per year jeopardizes a student's full-time status. Failure to complete 32 points per year may jeopardize a student's eligibility to receive financial aid; students should discuss their situation with the Office of Financial Aid in the StudentLink Center, 383 Lafayette Street. Students may register for more than 18 points per term with the approval and clearance of their academic adviser.
Change of Program
To make any changes in their program, including dropping or adding courses given in other divisions of the University, students must access Albert via home.nyu.edu or file a change of program ("drop/add") form with the Office of the Registrar in the StudentLink Center, 383 Lafayette Street.
Adding Courses
The deadline for the adding of a course or a section is the end of the second week of the semester. The deadline applies to any course added by a College of Arts and Science student and to any College of Arts and Science course added by students from other divisions. The adding of any course or section after the end of the second week is generally allowed only with the written approval of both the instructor and Academic Standards in the Office of the Associate Dean for Students, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8140.
Dropping and Withdrawing from Courses
Students are expected to maintain a full-time program as described above. Occasionally, they may withdraw from a course if, because of reasons beyond their control, they cannot continue. Courses dropped during the first two weeks of the term will not appear on the transcript. Those dropped from the beginning of the third week through the end of the fourteenth week of the term will be recorded with a grade of W. After the fourteenth week, no student may withdraw from a course unless his or her petition is approved by the College’s Committee on Academic Standards. Students who are ill or have a serious personal issue should see, call, or write to an adviser in the College Advising Center, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8130.
Complete Withdrawals
Students who wish to withdraw from all courses in the current term must make an appointment for an interview with an adviser in the College Advising Center.
If the student is unable to attend the College during the term following the withdrawal, he or she should discuss a leave of absence with an adviser in the College Advising Center. For more information, see "leave of absence," below.
Auditing
Matriculated students in the College or in any division of the University (undergraduate or graduate) may audit (i.e., attend lectures without intending to receive credit) any course in the College with the consent of, and under the conditions established by, the instructor and the department. Auditors may not preempt space required for registered students. Courses cannot be audited as a means of satisfying requirements for an Incomplete grade or as a means of changing a previous grade. Special (visiting or non-degree) students may not audit courses.
Effective with the fall 2020 term, and following Office of the Registrar policy, auditors must be fully registered for audited courses in Albert and are charged full tuition, but do not earn points. They receive the grade of "R" which is not computed in the grade point average. If they are not CAS students, they must have permission from their home school, and their advisers or deans' offices must confirm with the College before approval to audit a CAS course is granted.
Students do not register themselves as auditors on Albert; the process requires a signed add/drop form sent to the Office of the Registrar with "register as auditor" noted in the special processing section.
ATTENDANCE
Although the administration of the College does not supervise attendance of classes, it supports the standards imposed by instructors.
Students who, in the judgment of the instructor, have not substantially met the requirements of the course or who have been excessively absent may be considered to have withdrawn unofficially and may be given the final grade of F. See "withdrawing from courses," above.
Religious Holidays and Attendance
Please consult the University Calendar Policy on Religious Holidays (https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/university-calendar-policy-on-religious-holidays.html).
LEAVES OF ABSENCE (GENERAL AND MEDICAL)
General Leave
Please consult the University’s Student Leave Policy (https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/student-leave-policy.html).
CREDIT, POLICIES ON RECEIVING
Credit for Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, A Level, and Other Examinations
The College participates in the Advanced Placement Program of the College Entrance Examination Board. Students who have taken Advanced Placement exams while in high school should have the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, NJ, forward their official scores to NYU Undergraduate Admissions, 383 Lafayette Street, New York, NY 10003.
No credit is given for AP tests taken after the completion of high school. In most subjects, if the score received is 4 or 5, credit will be granted. The AP credit will be lost, however, if a student takes the equivalent course for credit in the College. For more information, see the "advanced placement equivalencies" chart in the admission section of this Bulletin.
For information on IB, A Level, and the other international examinations for which CAS awards credit (minimum scores, course equivalencies, etc.), please see "credit by examination" and charts in the admission section of this Bulletin. No credit is given for international tests taken after the completion of high school.
The maximum number of credits allowed toward the degree requirements of the College that are a result of any possible combination of nonresident special examination programs (plus previous coursework, if applicable and approved) shall not exceed a total of 32.
College Credits Taken in Secondary School by First-Year Matriculants in CAS
Credit may be awarded to students who completed college courses while in high school (credits from either a community college or a four-year college or university are acceptable), provided that: they received a grade of C or better in the courses; an official transcript from the college or university is received; corresponding courses are offered at NYU; and the courses are applicable to a student's degree program requirements. Note that students who matriculate as first years will not receive transfer credit for post-secondary expository writing courses, since they are required to complete at least one first-year writing course at NYU. Note also that students who enter CAS as first years may be awarded no more than 32 advanced standing credits; this limit includes both credits from Advanced Placement and similar examinations and previous college credits.
Credit for Courses in the College
To receive credit for a course, the student must register before attending, meet the requirements for attendance, and creditably complete all examinations and assignments prescribed by the instructor. For exceptional students, most departments also offer independent study. The College does not permit students to register as auditors.
Restrictions on Receiving Credit (Including Course Repeat Policy)
A student who has taken a course for credit or who has obtained a W in a course is permitted to repeat that course once. Students may not repeat more than two courses during their undergraduate careers. Students may not repeat courses in a designated sequence after taking more advanced courses. The departments determine the sequencing of courses. Students with questions regarding the repetition of courses or course sequences must consult with the particular department offering the course. When a student repeats a course, no additional credit will be awarded. Both grades will be recorded and computed in the grade point average. Courses that a student repeated before internally or externally transferring or transitioning into CAS do not count against the two-course limit.
A limited number of credits may be earned by those in the military services who take correspondence courses in colleges approved by the United States Armed Forces Institute.
Students may not be registered at another university at the same time that they are registered in the College of Arts and Science.
Double Counting Courses between Majors and Minors
In some cases, course credit may be applicable to two majors, a major and a minor, or two minors, but only if the academic departments consider this appropriate. Students must then obtain written approval for the shared course(s) from the directors of undergraduate studies of both departments. No student may double count more than two courses. Some departments have set more restrictive sharing rules (a limit of one shared course, or none at all) as indicated in their sections of this Bulletin. No course may ever be triple-counted among any combination of three majors and/or minors.
Credit for Courses at Other Schools and Divisions of New York University
Courses may be taken in the New York University Graduate School of Arts and Science. 1000-level graduate courses may be taken as described in the departmental sections of this Bulletin, and 2000-level graduate courses may be taken with written approval of the instructor. If graduate courses are applied toward the completion of requirements for the baccalaureate degree, no advanced credit is allowed for them in the Graduate School of Arts and Science.
It is also possible for students to take courses in other undergraduate divisions of New York University and to have credits for these courses applied to the degree in the College.
Students may take a total of 16 points in other divisions, including any courses for particular minors approved by the College. Transfer students should note that credits for non-liberal-arts courses (e.g., business, applied art, speech) taken at another institution count as part of the 16 points. Students seeking additional non-liberal-arts credits beyond the 16-point limit must speak with their academic adviser in the College Advising Center, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8130.
Some study away courses bearing the suffixes -AD/UH (NYU Abu Dhabi) and -SHU (NYU Shanghai) are approved not to count against each CAS student's 16-point allowance in the other schools of NYU.
Please note that restrictions apply. Courses in other divisions that duplicate the contents of a College of Arts and Science course do not count toward the College degree. For details, students must check with an adviser in the College Advising Center before registering for any courses in other divisions. If a course is not approved, students will not receive credit for it. Independent study or internship courses taken in other divisions of the University do not count toward the College degree. If such courses are taken at schools outside the University, the credit will not transfer to the College.
Also excluded from credit toward the degree are any courses taken in the School of Professional Studies, and/or in the Liberal Studies Program, once a student is matriculated in the College. However, CAS students are allowed to take some specified advanced courses in Global Liberal Studies (GLS).
Internal and external transfer students to the College must complete 64 credits in CAS (-UA) courses; courses taken in the other divisions and schools of NYU (including NYU Abu Dhabi and Shanghai) cannot count toward this 64-credit requirement.
Summer Credits
Once admitted to the College, students must take all courses here, including those they need or wish to take during the summer. Exceptions are granted only rarely and only for good academic reasons.
Requests for a waiver should be made by submitting a petition to the Committee on Undergraduate Academic Standards in the Office of the Associate Dean for Students, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8140; http://cas.nyu.edu/academic-standards.
Information about NYU summer course offerings is available during the preceding fall and spring terms, as is information about dormitory facilities available to students who usually commute.
Credit for Independent Study
Most departments offer independent study courses for students with exceptional qualifications. In these courses, the work is planned specifically for each student.
Independent study courses allow the student to work independently with faculty supervision and counsel. The courses typically carry variable credit of 2 or 4 points each term. They are normally limited to upper-class majors but may be open to other well-qualified students. To register for independent study, a student must have written approval of the director of undergraduate studies of the department in which the course is offered. The result of the independent study course should be a paper or objective, tangible evidence of completion of the work. The individual departments may grant credit for not more than 8 points of independent study for work approved in advance. In general, students are not permitted to take more than 12 points of independent study and/or internship, and no more than 8 points may be taken in any one department. Internships and/or independent study courses taken in other divisions of the University or at other universities do not count toward the College degree.
More specific information can be found under the individual departmental sections.
Credit for Transfer Students
Students are allowed to transfer up to 64 credits to the College and must present official college transcripts. Credits based on semester hours are accepted from other institutions at face value and are not altered when they are transferred into the College. Quarter hours will be converted to semester hours to determine the number of credits transferable to the College of Arts and Science. Non-liberal-arts credits are not always transferable, and transfer credit is never awarded for independent study or internship courses. Only credits for course work taken with a grade of C or better will be transferred. Courses taken for a pass/fail grade will not transfer to the College.
Internal and external transfer students to the College must complete 64 credits in CAS (-UA) courses; courses taken in the other divisions and schools of NYU (including NYU Abu Dhabi and Shanghai) cannot count toward this 64-credit requirement.
Credit for Non-NYU Study Abroad
Credits based on semester hours (similar to schools in the United States) are accepted from institutions abroad at face value and are not altered when the credits transfer into the College. Often credits from institutions abroad must be adjusted or converted to correspond to the College's requirements for awarding credits. Approval to participate in a non-NYU study abroad is only obtained by completing an academic proposal. Petitions are filed through the Office of the Associate Dean for Students, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8140; http://cas.nyu.edu/academic-standards.
When students receive approval to participate in a non-NYU program abroad, the specific courses they will take are approved and the number of transfer credits they will receive is specified.
Credit for Online Courses
CAS students can count up to four online courses (up to a total of 16 points) toward the baccalaureate degree. They can be taken in other NYU schools and/or be applied as external transfer credit. No prior approval is needed to take an NYU online course. However, students must petition to transfer in external online courses. Petitions are filed through the Office of the Associate Dean for Students, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8140; http://cas.nyu.edu/academic-standards.
Online courses cannot meet the requirements of any CAS major or minor unless they are accepted and approved by the department's director of undergraduate studies.
Students may not register for online (or any) course in NYU’s School of Professional Studies.
Online credits from for-profit institutions are not accepted.
Students must check the policies of graduate and professional schools they may plan to attend after graduation from NYU; not all programs will accept online credits. 
EXAMINATIONS AND GRADES
Missed and Makeup Examinations
As noted under "grades," below, a student who cannot take the final examination in a course at the regularly scheduled time may be given the grade of Incomplete. The student must discuss the reasons for missing the examination with the instructor and, in the case of illness, must consult with the instructor. The student must ask the instructor to give a grade of Incomplete. Incompletes are not awarded automatically. The time and place of any makeup examinations are set by the instructor or the department.
Incomplete grades received because of a missed final examination must be removed within the semester following the one in which the Incomplete was received. In the case of students who are out of attendance, such grades must be removed within one year after the end of the course concerned. A grade of Incomplete that is not removed within this time limit becomes an F and is computed in the grade point average. (Regarding the removal of Incompletes received for missed work other than final examinations, see under "grades" and "Incompletes," below.)
Grades
Students may obtain their final grades for each semester on Albert via home.nyu.edu. The parents or guardian of a student who is a minor (under 18 years of age) may, on a written request to the Office of the University Registrar, obtain the student's grades at any time.
The following symbols indicating grades are used in the College: A, B, C, D, and F, as well as P, W, NR, and R. The following symbol indicates incomplete work: I. The full range of regular grades is: A, A-, B+, B, B-, C+, C, C-, D+, D, F. Only grades of A through F (including all plus and minus grades, such as B+ and B-) earned in any New York University course are computed in the average. In general, A indicates excellent work, B indicates good work, C indicates satisfactory work, and D indicates passable work and is the lowest passing grade. F indicates failure.
By vote of the University Senate on March 29, 2018, the weights assigned in computing the grade point average are as follows, effective fall 2018 and thereafter. Grades and GPAs prior to fall 2018 will not change; for the pre-fall 2018 weighting of grades, please consult an archived CAS Bulletin.
A = 4.000
A- = 3.667
B+ = 3.333
B = 3.000
B- = 2.667
C+ = 2.333
C = 2.000
C- = 1.667
D+ = 1.333
D = 1.000
F = 0.000
COMPUTING THE GRADE POINT AVERAGE
The grade point average can be obtained by determining the total of all grade points earned (quality points) and dividing that figure by the total number of credit hours completed (quality hours).
For example (using the grade weighting in effect before fall 2018): A student who has completed 8 points of A (4.0), 4 points of B (3.0), and 4 points of C (2.0) has a grade point average of 3.25. This is obtained by adding 8 (points of A) x 4.0 (point value of A), 4 (points of B) x 3.0 (point value of B), and 4 (points of C) x 2.0 (point value of C), which totals 52 (the total of all grade points earned), and then by dividing 52 by 16 (the total number of credit hours completed). This gives the grade point average of 3.25.
POLICIES ON ASSIGNED GRADES
Once a final grade has been submitted by the instructor and recorded on the transcript, the final grade cannot be changed by turning in additional coursework.
Courses cannot be audited as a means of satisfying requirements for an Incomplete grade or as a means of changing a previous grade.
To appeal an assigned grade, the student should first consult with the instructor who assigned the grade to discuss the grading requirements for the course and how the grade was determined. If the student is not satisfied with the outcome of the discussion and wishes to appeal the grade further, a formal written appeal should be submitted to the chair and/or director of undergraduate studies in the particular department. An independent review of the grade will be undertaken by the department. All of the student's work will be reviewed to clarify how the grade was determined and to ensure the grade is consistent with the academic guidelines and policies of the department. The decision of the department in matters related to a course grade is final.
In the case of a course that has been repeated, for students who matriculate in or are re-admitted to CAS in fall 2012 and thereafter: both grades will be recorded on the transcript and both grades will be computed in the grade point average. When a student repeats a course, no additional credit will be awarded.
The grades for courses taken abroad in one of New York University's programs or at one of the exchange sites are recorded on the transcript and are also included in the grade point average. The grades for graduate and professional courses taken at other divisions in the University are included in the grade point average, provided that permission to enroll is obtained prior to registration for the courses.
Not included in the undergraduate grade point average are grades for the first year of professional courses taken by those students in the three-year accelerated dental program and grades for work done at institutions other than New York University (except for exchange sites abroad).
GRADE OF P
The grade of P (Pass) indicates a passing grade (A, B, C, or D) in a course taken under the Pass/Fail option. It is also used to indicate nongraded courses. The grade of P is not computed in the average. The grade of F under the Pass/Fail option is computed in the average. For more information and procedures to obtain the Pass/Fail option, see the section "Pass/Fail option," below.
GRADE OF W
The grade of W indicates an official withdrawal of the student from a course in good academic standing. Please see "change of program" and "withdrawing from courses," above, for information on the regulations and procedures for withdrawing officially from courses.
GRADE OF I
The grade of I (Incomplete) is a temporary grade that indicates that the student has, for good reason, not completed all of the course work but that there is the possibility that the student will eventually pass the course when all of the requirements have been completed. A student must ask the instructor for a grade of I, consult with the instructor if they suffered an illness or the equivalent, and clarify the remaining course requirements with the instructor.
The Incomplete grade is not awarded automatically. It is not used when there is no possibility that the student will eventually pass the course. Courses cannot be audited as a means of satisfying requirements for an Incomplete grade. If the course work is not completed after the statutory time for making up Incompletes has elapsed, the temporary grade of I shall become an F and will be computed in the student's grade point average.
GRADE OF NR
Grades not entered by the course instructor or academic department within 60 days from the grade deadline will lapse to NR (No Record). Courses with NR grades will not count toward earned credit and will not factor into the GPA, but will count as credits attempted and will impact academic progress evaluations used for financial aid eligibility. Students may not graduate with NR grades on their transcript without a formal documented exception approved by the CAS Office of the Associate Dean for Students.
GRADE OF R
This grade is only used for audited courses. Auditors must be fully registered (by an administrator, via an add/drop slip) in Albert for audited courses and pay full tuition, but do not earn credit. The grade of R is not computed in the grade point average.
Incompletes
All work missed in the fall term must be made up by the end of the following spring term. All work missed in the spring term or in a summer session must be made up by the end of the following fall term. Students who are out of attendance in the semester following the one in which the course was taken have one year to complete the work. Students should contact the College Advising Center (726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8130) for an extension of Incomplete form, which must be approved by the instructor. Extensions of these time limits are rarely granted.
Pass/Fail Option
Students may elect one Pass/Fail option each term, including the summer sessions, for a total of not more than 32 points during their college career. The Pass/Fail option is not acceptable for courses completed at other institutions.
The choice must be made before the completion of the fourteenth week of the term (fifth week of a six-week summer session); after that time, the decision cannot be initiated or changed. No grade other than P or F will be recorded for those students choosing this option. P includes the grades of A, B, C, and D and is not counted in the average. F is counted in the average.
The Pass/Fail option is not acceptable in the major, the minor, or any of the courses taken in fulfillment of the College Core Curriculum requirements. Students considering the Pass/Fail option in their area of study or in required preprofessional courses should consult with their advisers about the effect of such grades on admission to graduate and professional schools. Students who change their majors may not be able to use courses taken under the Pass/Fail option to satisfy the requirements of their new majors. To declare the Pass/Fail option before the end of the fourteenth week of the semester or the end of the fifth week of a six-week summer session, students must consult with an adviser in the College Advising Center, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8130. Advisers submit the request on students' behalf.
PLACEMENT EXAMINATIONS, DEGREE PROGRESS REPORTS, TRANSCRIPTS, AND DIPLOMAS
Placement Examinations in Foreign Languages
Most entering students take a placement test prior to their first registration in the College. Students who took a foreign-language SAT subject test while in high school are encouraged to present the score instead of or in addition to taking the College's test. (Please consult the table on SAT subject exams and the College Core Curriculum in the admission section of this Bulletin. Note that the College Board discontinued the subject exams as of January 2021 in the U.S. and after June 2021 internationally.)
Placement exams for the following languages are accessible online: Cantonese, French, German, Greek (modern), Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Latin, Mandarin (traditional and simplified), Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Tagalog (Filipino). To take an exam, go to http://www.nyu.edu/cas/flpexam/ and follow the appropriate links.
Online exams in these languages are for placement only, not exemption. Eligibility to take an in-person, paper exam for exemption from the CAS foreign language requirement is determined by a student's score on the online placement exam.
Some languages do not have online placement exams and are only tested on paper: Gaelic (Irish), arranged through Ireland House; and Arabic, Turkish, Persian, Hindi, and Urdu, all arranged through the Department of Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies. These written exams result either in an exemption from the foreign language requirement (see "foreign language" under College Core Curriculum in this Bulletin) or in placement into the appropriate-level course.
Whether online or written, these are reading examinations; students should choose to be tested in the language in which they have good reading skills.
Placement into a lower-level course means that the student must continue his or her studies of that language (or begin a new language) until completion of the intermediate two level of that language. In some cases, adjustments in placement may be made during the first weeks of class. Students who place at a level below that which they have completed at another college will lose transfer credit if they repeat foreign language course work at the College of Arts and Science.
A foreign language examination is required of all entering students with the following exceptions: students who will begin a language they have not previously studied; students whose entire secondary schooling was in a language other than English; and those who complete the sequence of required Expository Writing courses for international students. Students in these categories should contact the College Advising Center to verify that they have satisfied the foreign language requirement.
Information on foreign language placement and exemption testing can be obtained from the Office of Academic Affairs, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8110; http://cas.nyu.edu/academic-programs/academic-support-services/placementexams.html or by email: cas.placementexams@nyu.edu.
Placement Examinations in Calculus and Mathematics for Economics
Students who intend to register for Calculus I (MATH-UA 121) or Mathematics for Economics I (MATH-UA 131; formerly 211) and do not meet any of the prerequisites listed in the mathematics section of this Bulletin must take a placement exam to determine their readiness to enter calculus. Students can also take placement exams to skip ahead in the Calculus I-II-III and Mathematics for Economics I-II-III sequences. Contact the Department of Mathematics, 251 Mercer Street; 212-998-3005; www.math.nyu.edu.
Placement into Writing Courses for English as a Second Language Students
In CAS, for most students, Writing the Essay (EXPOS-UA 1) fulfills the College Core Curriculum writing requirement. Writing the Essay requires frequent analytical and reflective writing, which is common in other courses throughout NYU. The writing and reading assignments are challenging even for native speakers of English, and require them to develop conceptual frameworks for their arguments and ideas by working with a wide range of sophisticated and complex sources at a pace comfortable for most native speakers.
NYU recognizes that international students come with varying levels of language competency and fluency and require more time to complete challenging reading and writing assignments. For international students, there are alternate pathways to satisfying the Core writing requirement.
1) International students who attended English-language high schools for four years may be uncertain about the default placement into Writing the Essay (EXPOS-UA 1). For those students, an option is placement within the International Writing sequence, beginning with International Writing Workshop I (EXPOS-UA 4), followed by International Writing Workshop II (EXPOS-UA 9). The expectations for International Writing Workshop I and II are the same as for Writing the Essay, but the classes are smaller and there is more time (two semesters) to complete the curriculum. For help determining whether Writing the Essay or International Writing Workshop I is the better choice for international students who attended English-language high schools, please visit the Expository Writing Program webpage: ewp.cas.nyu.edu.
2) International students who did not attend English-language high schools for four years are asked to take a survey designed to determine appropriate placement. Based on their survey responses, these students may be placed into International Writing Workshop: Introduction (EXPOS-UA 3), which is followed by International Writing Workshop I (EXPOS-UA 4) and then by International Writing Workshop II (EXPOS-UA 9). The preliminary course, International Writing Workshop: Introduction, is taught in an environment where gaining fluency in reading, writing, and speaking in English is an expected part of the coursework, and offers the international student more time and support for reading, writing, and speaking. It is possible for students in International Writing Workshop: Introduction to be reevaluated at the end of the course for possible waiver of International Writing Workshop I (EXPOS-UA 4) and direct placement into International Writing Workshop II (EXPOS-UA 9). For questions about survey results, please consult with your adviser and the survey team: ewp-writingsurvey@nyu.edu.
Degree Progress Report
All students have access to their degree progress report, as generated by the Office of the University Registrar, on Albert via NYUHome. It is located in the Academics section of the Student Center. The degree progress report is a Student Information System (SIS) accounting of completed and remaining degree requirements.
Transcripts of Record
Unofficial transcripts are available on Albert, NYU's Web-based registration and information system. Albert can be accessed via NYUHome.
Students requiring a stamped and sealed copy of their New York University records should request an official copy of their University transcript from the Office of the University Registrar. Requests for official transcripts require the signature of the student/alumnus requesting the transcript, unless the student/alumnus has a valid NetID.
Current students and graduates with a valid NYU NetID (able to access NYUHome/Albert) who attended NYU in or after 1990 can request an official transcript from the Albert Student Center. The Official Transcript link can be found under the Grades & Transcripts section of the Student Center.
Alumni who attended NYU prior to 1990 and have a valid NetID can go to the secure online transcript request form and log in with their NetID and password. A signed consent form is not required.
Before completing their transcript request, current students should check to ensure that all their grades have been posted. Recent graduates should check to ensure that their degree has been recorded.
Any transcript request that requires any special handling must go through the secure online transcript request form (https://www.nyu.edu/registrar/transcript-form.html) and cannot be requested on Albert. Special handling includes: (1) sending transcripts by express mail; (2) transcripts sent to the student or alumnus/a in separate sealed envelopes addressed to admissions offices of other universities; (3) including additional documents to be sent along with the NYU transcript.
Former students who no longer have a valid NetID (unable to access NYUHome/Albert) or who attended New York University prior to 1990 must complete the secure online transcript request form (https://www.nyu.edu/registrar/transcript-form.html) and mail/fax/email the signature page to the Office of the University Registrar. Alternatively, they may write a letter to request transcripts and send this to the registrar. A signed consent form is required. The request letter must include all of the following information:
University ID number
Current name and any other name under which the graduate attended NYU
Current address
Date of birth
School of the University attended
Dates of attendance
Date of graduation
The full name and address of the person or institution to which the transcript is to be sent
The request may be faxed to 212-995-4154 or mailed to New York University, Office of the University Registrar, Transcripts and Certification, P.O. Box 910, New York, NY 10276-0910. There is never any charge for academic transcripts. Transcripts cannot be produced for anyone whose record has been put on hold for an outstanding University obligation.
Requesting Enrollment Verification
Students can view/print their own enrollment certification directly from Albert using the integrated National Student Clearinghouse student portal. This feature can be accessed from the Enrollment Verification link in the Grades and Transcripts section of the Student Center. Eligible students are also able to view/print a good student discount certificate, which can be mailed to an auto insurer or any other company that requests proof of status as a good student (based on the cumulative GPA).
Former students who no longer have a valid NetID (unable to access NYUHome/Albert) can request a copy using the Enrollment/Degree Completion Request form at registrar.nyu.edu. The signed consent form may be emailed to certifications@nyu.edu, faxed to 212-995-4154, or mailed to New York University, Office of the University Registrar, Transcripts and Certification, P.O. Box 910, New York, NY 10276-0910.
Verification of enrollment or graduation may also be requested by submitting a signed letter via email/fax/mail to the Office of the University Registrar with the following information:
University ID number
Current name and any name under which the student or graduate attended NYU
Current address
Date of birth
School of the University attended
Dates attended
Date of graduation
The full name and address of the person or institution to which the verification is to be sent
Diploma Application
Students may officially graduate in September, January, or May. The all-University Commencement ceremony is held in May. The College holds a baccalaureate ceremony in May. Students must apply for graduation on Albert, and they must be enrolled for either course work, leave of absence, or maintenance of matriculation during their final semester.
To graduate in a specific semester, students must apply for graduation within the application deadline period indicated on the calendar available at the Office of the University Registrar's web page. It is recommended that students apply for graduation no later than the beginning of the semester in which they plan to complete all program requirements. Students who do not successfully complete all academic requirements by the end of that semester must reapply for graduation for the following cycle.
ACADEMIC STANDARDS, INTEGRITY, AND DISCIPLINE
Academic Standards
The Committee on Undergraduate Academic Standards reviews student records throughout the academic year. All of its actions are based on the grades to date at the end of the term.
PETITIONS
The Faculty Committee on Undergraduate Academic Standards will consider petitions from students to waive requirements or modify policies and regulations of the College. Students should be aware that only very exceptional cases, supported by valid and documented reasons, will be considered. After deliberation, the committee's decisions on such matters are final. Petitions are filed through the Office of the Associate Dean for Students, 726 Broadway, 7th floor; 212-998-8140; http://cas.nyu.edu/academic-standards.
ACADEMIC ALERT
Students with cumulative grade point averages of 2.0 to 2.25 will receive an academic alert letter reflecting the committee's specific recommendations for achieving an appropriate standard for academic performance.
ACADEMIC PROBATION
Any student whose record is deemed unsatisfactory will be placed on academic probation and will be so informed by email. A record will be deemed unsatisfactory if, in any semester, the cumulative or semester grade point average falls below 2.0 or if it fails to show steady and substantial progress toward the degree. Steady and substantial progress toward the degree entails the completion, with satisfactory grades, of more than half of the courses (and points) for which a student registers in any semester. In addition, it entails satisfactory progress in the student's major.
Failure to satisfy the conditions of probation will result in further academic sanctions and possibly dismissal from the College. The conditions usually require that the student, within the next 16 points of coursework, (a) achieve a grade point average of at least 2.0 during the term he or she is on probation, (b) not receive any grade below a C or any grade of I, and (c) not withdraw from any course without securing the permission of the Committee on Undergraduate Academic Standards prior to the withdrawal. Students on academic probation are also required to have a special probation interview with an adviser in the College Advising Center to receive registration clearance for the next semester. More specific requirements may be imposed.
The Committee on Undergraduate Academic Standards may summon students with unsatisfactory records to discuss their problems and to determine whether and under what conditions they may continue in the College. In special circumstances, the committee may recommend to the dean that students may be granted or placed on leave for a period not to exceed two semesters.
Students on academic probation may not engage in any extracurricular activities (except for departmental clubs) and may not hold office in these clubs without the approval of the Committee on Undergraduate Academic Standards.
Students on academic probation should be aware that they are usually ineligible for financial aid.
ACADEMIC DISMISSAL
Students who are dismissed from the College for poor academic performance will be informed via e-mail. Students who have paid tuition for the next term at the time of dismissal will receive a full refund of tuition and fees.
Academic Integrity
A COMMUNITY OF THE MIND
The College is a "community of the mind." Its students, faculty, and staff all share the goal of pursuing truth through free and open inquiry, and we support one another's endeavors in this regard. As in any community, membership comes with certain rights and responsibilities. Foremost among these is academic integrity. Cheating on an exam, falsifying data, or having someone else write a paper undermines others who are "doing it on their own"; it makes it difficult or impossible to assess fairly a student's interest, aptitude, and achievement; and it diminishes the cheater, depriving him or her of an education. Most important, academic dishonesty is a violation of the very principles upon which the academy is founded. For this reason, violations of these principles are treated with the utmost seriousness.
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCE HONOR CODE
As a student in the College of Arts and Science at New York University, you belong to a community of scholars who value free and open inquiry. Honest assessment of ideas and their sources is the foundation of what we do.
Our University is a community of mutual trust and respect in which personal prejudice has no part in the critical evaluation of ideas. It is a place where differences of opinion can be subjected to deliberate and reasonable examination without animus. As scholars, it is therefore as a matter of honor and good repute that we each commit ourselves to assuring the integrity of our academic community and of the educational pursuits we undertake together.
As a student in the College, I pledge that:
I shall perform honestly all my academic obligations. I will not represent the words, works, or ideas of others as my own; will not cheat; and will not seek to mislead faculty or other academic officers in their evaluation of my course work or in any other academic affairs.
I shall behave with decorum and civility, and with respectful regard for all members of the University—faculty, staff, and fellow students—our guests, and members of our wider communities.
I shall abide by the College and by the University rules of conduct and policies on academic integrity and by the special requirements of any individual course of study or other academic activity.
I shall endeavor earnestly to uphold the values, standards, and ideals on which our University community depends and call on others to do so.
Discipline: College of Arts and Science Rules and Procedures on Student Misconduct
The Faculty of Arts and Science Committee on Student Discipline oversees the academic conduct of students in the College of Arts and Science and the Graduate School of Arts and Science.  Gathered here are a number of resources for faculty and students, including the rules and procedures for adjudicating academic disciplinary complaints concerning students in the College and the Graduate School, and other relevant University rules, policies, and procedures.
Effective August 12, 2018, allegations of non-academic misconduct, as outlined in the University Student Conduct Policy (https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/university-student-conduct-policy.html), against a student of the College of Arts and Science or the Graduate School of Arts and Science, shall be addressed pursuant to the procedures set forth in the NYU Student Conduct Procedures (https://www.nyu.edu/students/student-information-and-resources/student-community-standards/studentconductprocedures.html) and administered by the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards under the authority of the Senior Vice President of Student Affairs. These include violations of the University Policy an Substance Abuse and Alcoholic Beverages (https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/substance-abuse-and-alcoholic-beverages.html) and the University Policy on Weapons and Simulated Weapons (https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/weapons-and-simulated-weapons-policy.html). Allegations of academic misconduct (plagiarism, cheating, etc.) against a student of the College of Arts and Science or the Graduate School of Arts and Science shall continue to be addressed by the school in accordance with established procedures.
FACULTY OF ARTS AND SCIENCE STATEMENT ON STUDENT DISCIPLINE
New York University is a community of scholars who value free and open inquiry. Our work depends on honest assessment of ideas and their sources; and we expect all members of our community to maintain the highest integrity in their academic work. As scholars committed to the critical evaluation of ideas, free of personal prejudice, we also have an obligation to one other to create an educational atmosphere of mutual trust and respect in which differences of opinion can be subjected to deliberate and reasonable examination without animus. Because of the central importance of these values to our intellectual life together, students who fail to maintain them will be subject to academic disciplinary sanction, which may include dismissal from the University.
Academic Disciplinary offenses include but are not limited to:
Cheating, plagiarism, falsification of data or sources, and/or forgery. Forgery or other misrepresentations or omissions in the admissions process is also prohibited by NYU; procedures and practices for addressing such instances are set and implemented by NYU’s undergraduate admissions and the respective CAS graduate program admissions unit;
destruction, theft, and/or unauthorized use of laboratory data and/or research materials.
The following penalties may be imposed by the faculty for disciplinary infractions:
Warning
Probation
Suspension
Dismissal
RULES AND PROCEDURES  
1.General Principles

a) Student academic misconduct includes plagiarism, cheating, and possession of or use of any prohibited notes, reference resources, or data processing or other devices in any class or examination; and forgery of academic documents in attempt to defraud.

b) In cases of academic misconduct, evaluation of the student’s academic performance is distinguished from disciplinary adjudication of the offense. The question of what grade the student’s work should earn is distinct from that about whether a disciplinary sanction should also be imposed. When a student is found to have engaged in academic misconduct, the instructor may reduce the student’s grade for the assignment or for the course as a whole; however, such a determination is an academic judgment made by the instructor in accord with the expectations of the department or program offering the course and is not a form of disciplinary sanction. The question of whether a disciplinary sanction should also be imposed is separate from this academic determination, as specified in the procedures described herein.

2.Academic Misconduct—Academic Review

a) When it is believed that violations of academic integrity may have occurred it is within the discretion of the faculty member to address the matter informally with the student should the infraction be judged insubstantial or should the evidence be inconclusive. In such cases the faculty member may determine that no grade reduction is warranted.

b) Should the faculty member judge the violation substantial and well supported by the evidence, he or she may, with the assent of the Director of Undergraduate Studies (or, if the Director of Undergraduate Studies is the instructor, with the chair or another academic director in the department or program, or if the department or program should be too small, in an ad hoc consultation with a chair or academic director of another department or program from the same academic division) reduce the student’s grade or assign the student a failing grade for the assignment in question or for the course as a whole. This grade reduction only reflects the student’s failure creditably to complete the academic requirements in question and is not a disciplinary sanction. The grade reduction should be proportional to the size and weight of the incident of academic misconduct among all requirements for the course and appropriate to the level at which the course is offered.

c) In order to better educate the student about the CAS standards for academic integrity, the faculty member and/or the Director of Undergraduate Studies should meet with the student to discuss the nature of the offense and the action taken. This responsibility of the faculty should not be delegated to recitation or laboratory instructors or other course assistants.

d) For incidents of academic misconduct, the student’s appeal of the grade reduction is limited to departmental review conducted by the Director of Undergraduate Studies and/or the Department Chair, as specified in the CAS policy for grade appeals. The review will be limited to the question of whether the reduction in grade was made fairly and in keeping with the expectations of the department or program.

e) The decision of the department or program on the student's appeal is final.

3.Academic Misconduct—Reporting and Disciplinary Referral

a) In all instances in which there has been a finding that a CAS student committed a substantial violation of academic integrity standards of CAS or of any of its departments or programs, the Director of Undergraduate Studies will inform the student within seven (7) calendar days in writing and/or via email of any action taken and send copies of this letter to the CAS Associate Dean for Students, the faculty member, and the Department Chair or Program Director. The letter will include the nature of the violation, any resulting reduction in grade, and notice of the student’s right to appeal.

b) The Director of Undergraduate Studies will also within seven (7) calendar days inform the CAS Associate Dean for Students in writing and/or via email of the student’s violation, forward to the dean the evidence of the violation, and send a copy of the correspondence to the faculty member and to the Department Chair or Program Director.

c) If this is the student’s first incident of academic misconduct, the Associate Dean for Students will warn the student in person and in writing that a suspension or a more severe penalty may result from a second academic integrity offense of any kind.

d) If this is the student’s second or further incident of academic misconduct, the Associate Dean for Students will meet with the student, discuss the evidence of academic misconduct, and provide the student an opportunity to respond. The student will be informed of his or her right to accept or reject a resolution by the Associate Dean. After considering all relevant information, the Associate Dean may offer the student terms upon which CAS is willing to resolve the matter, which may include imposition of a disciplinary sanction. Where the student and the Associate Dean agree to terms in writing, a binding consensual resolution will exist between the student and CAS. Where the Associate Dean is unable to resolve the complaint by consensual resolution, the matter will be referred to the Committee on Student Discipline.

e) In all instances in which there has been a finding that a non-CAS student committed a substantial violation of academic integrity standards of CAS or of any of its departments or programs, the Director of Undergraduate Studies will proceed in accord with the procedures under (a) and (b), except that notice will be made instead to the Dean of Students of the student’s school.

4.Non-academic Behavioral Misconduct

All students are expected to abide by the expectations set forth in the University-wide Student Conduct Policy. Allegations of non-academic misconduct against a student of the College of Arts and Science shall be addressed pursuant to the NYU Student Conduct Procedures administered by the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards under the authority of the Senior Vice President of Student Affairs. Complaints of student behavioral misconduct should be made to the CAS Associate Dean for Students. When such a complaint is received, the Associate Dean will notify the University Office of Student Conduct.
Discipline: Definitions of Sanctions
Approved by the Faculty of Arts and Science, April 21, 2014:
Warning: Written reprimand, including notice that a one-semester suspension or a more severe penalty may result from a second disciplinary offense within the period of the censure specified in the letter of reprimand.
Disciplinary probation: Suspension of privileges or exclusion from participation in extracurricular University activities as set forth in the notice of disciplinary probation for a specified period of time.
Suspension: Exclusion from classes as well as suspension of privileges and exclusion from other activities as set forth in the notice of suspension for a definite period of time. A student who has been suspended and against whom charges are dismissed or not sustained will be allowed full opportunity to make up whatever work was missed due to the suspension.
Dismissal: Termination of student status for an indefinite period. The conditions for readmission, if any are permitted, will be stated in the order of dismissal.
Arts and Science Committee on Student Discipline
Please consult information on the Committee on Student Discipline at https://as.nyu.edu/administrative-resources/administrative-resources-page-items/committee-on-student-discipline.html.
Student Grievance Procedure
Please consult the Student Grievance Procedure at https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/student-grievance-procedure.html.
UNIVERSITY POLICIES AND CAMPUS SAFETY
University Policy on Intellectual Property
Please see the Statement of Policy on Intellectual Property at https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/policy-intellectual-property.html.
Immunization Requirements
Please see the Student Policy on Immunization at https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/policies-and-guidelines/student-immunization-policy.html.
Bias Response Line
The New York University Bias Response Line provides a mechanism through which members of our community can share or report experiences and concerns of bias, discrimination, or harassing behavior that may occur within our community. Instances of such behavior may be reported by telephone, 212-998-2277; by email, bias.response@nyu.edu. Experienced administrators in the Office of Equal Opportunity receive and assess reports, and then help facilitate responses, which may include referral to another University school or unit, or investigation if warranted according to the University's existing Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy (https://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/equal-opportunity/harassment-and-discrimination.html).
Campus Safety
The Department of Public Safety is located at 7 Washington Place; telephone: 212-998-2222; 212-998-2220 (TTY).
New York University's annual campus security report includes statistics for the previous three years concerning reported crimes that occurred on campus, in certain off-campus buildings or property owned or controlled by NYU, and on public property within or immediately adjacent to the campus. The report also includes institutional policies concerning campus security, such as policies concerning sexual assault, drugs, and alcohol. Students may obtain a copy of the current report by contacting Thomas Grace, Director of Judicial Affairs and Compliance, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs (601 Kimmel Center: 212-998-4403), or Jay Zwicker, Crime Prevention Manager, Department of Public Safety (7 Washington Place: 212-998-1451), or by visiting the following website: www.nyu.edu/public.safety/policies.
