ARTS & SCIENCE COMMITTEE ELECTIONS
*ALL COMMITTEE TERMS – 3 YEARS *
TENURED/TENURE-TRACK FACULTY SENATORS (T-FSC)
Function: To represent the Faculty of Arts and Science (FAS) tenured/tenure-track faculty in the University Senate and the Faculty Council of New York University. The Senate is the deliberative body of the University and is empowered to act on “educational matter and regulations of the academic community that affect more than one school.” The T-FSC is established by the University Bylaws, and may consider, inter alia, any matters of educational and administrative policy. The T-FSC functions as the tenured/tenure-track faculty personnel committee of the Senate, and in this capacity, it is charged with considering any and all University-wide matters pertaining to tenured/tenure-track faculty. The FAS T-FSC shall report on the activities of the Senate and FSC to the FAS at its scheduled FAS Full Faculty meetings.

The FAS Tenured/Tenure-Track Faculty Senators shall also meet as a body separate from the general NYU Senate (with or without the Dean of FAS) to discuss matters of importance to FAS in accord with the Faculty’s fulfillment of its proper role in the governance of NYU. They must report back at least once per semester to the Policy and Planning Committee and the full faculty, through electronic communications.

Composition: The number of tenured/tenure-track senators allotted to each academic component of the University is based on the number of faculty in each component. For the election of FAS Tenured/Tenure-Track Faculty Senators to be valid at least three candidates must run for each open seat (e.g. for three open positions there would be a minimum of nine candidates). In any election year, candidates receiving the most votes are elected as Senators, and those with fewer votes are elected as Alternate Senators in sequential order. For example, if three Senators and three Alternate Senators are to be elected, the individuals receiving the most, second most, and third most votes will become Senators, and the individual receiving the fourth most votes will become an Alternate Senator for the Senator that received the most votes, the individual receiving the fifth most votes will become an Alternate Senator for the Senator that received the second most votes, and so on. The Alternate Senators will serve in place of their respective Senators in the event that their Senator is on leave or unable to fulfill his/her duties. It is not necessary that a Senator and the respective Alternate Senator belong to the same academic division. An Alternate Senator can run for a position as Senator in a subsequent election. If elected, a new Alternate Senator will be selected based on the protocol outlined above.

Term: Three Years.

Structure: Tenured/Tenure-Track Faculty Senators and Alternates are elected from and by the tenured/tenure-track faculty, as stipulated by and in accordance with University Bylaws, with staggered terms such that roughly one third of the representatives are elected each year. Elections are held prior to May 1 and the names of the representatives transmitted to the Secretary of the Senate within five days. The Senators of the T-FSC shall elect one of their members annually to serve on the Advisory Committee on Policy and Planning.

Scroll To Top

 

FULL-TIME CONTINUING CONTRACT FACULTY SENATORS (C-FSC)
Function: To represent the Faculty of Arts and Science (FAS) continuing contract faculty in the University Senate and the Faculty Council of New York University. The Senate is the deliberative body of the University and is empowered to act on “educational matter and regulations of the academic community that affect more than one school.” The C-FSC is established by the University Bylaws, and may consider, inter alia, any matters of educational and administrative policy. The C-FSC functions as the full-time continuing contract faculty personnel committee of the Senate, and in this capacity, it is charged with considering any and all University-wide matters pertaining to full-time continuing contract faculty. The FAS C-FSC shall report on the activities of the Senate and C-FSC to the FAS at its scheduled FAS Full Faculty meetings.

The FAS Continuing Contract Faculty Senators shall also meet as a body separate from the general NYU Senate (with or without the Dean of FAS) to discuss matters of importance to FAS in accord with the Faculty’s fulfillment of its proper role in the governance of NYU. They must report back at least once per semester to the Policy and Planning Committee and the full faculty, through electronic communications.

Composition: The number of continuing contract senators allotted to each academic component of the University is based on the number of faculty in each component. For the election of FAS Full-time Continuing Contract Faculty Senators to be valid at least three candidates must run for each open seat (e.g. for three open positions there would be a minimum of nine candidates). In any election year, candidates receiving the most votes are elected as Senators, and those with fewer votes are elected as Alternate Senators in sequential order as described above for the T-FSC, except that there can at any time be no more than two serving Senators from a single Department or Program, and no more than two serving Alternates from a single Department or Program. The Alternate Senators will serve in place of their respective Senators in the event that their Senator is on leave or unable to fulfill his/her duties. It is not necessary that a Senator and the respective Alternate Senator belong to the same academic division. An Alternate Senator can run for a position as Senator in a subsequent election. If elected, a new Alternate Senator will be selected based on the protocol outlined above.

Term: Three Years.

Structure: Continuing Contract Faculty Senators and Alternates are elected from and by the continuing contract faculty, as stipulated by and in accordance with University Bylaws, with staggered terms such that roughly one third of the representatives are elected each year. Elections are held prior to May 1 and the names of the representatives transmitted to the Secretary of the Senate within five days. The Senators of the C-FSC shall elect one of their members annually to serve on the Advisory Committee on Policy and Planning.

Scroll To Top

 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON POLICY & PLANNING
Function: To provide advice to the Dean of the FAS on all matters that affect the FAS, including, but not limited to, educational policies, fiscal policies, governance, tenure and promotion, and other academic matters that are within the province of the faculty and the Dean.

Composition: Six members, tenured full or associate professors, elected by the Tenured/Tenure Track Faculty, two from each academic division, plus three members of the continuing contract faculty at the rank of clinical associate or clinical  professor, elected by the Continuing Contract Faculty, one from each academic division, plus the Chairs of the Graduate and Undergraduate Curriculum Committees, a Senator selected by the T-FSC, and a Senator selected by the C-FSC. Ex officio members include the Dean of the A&S, the Deans of the Graduate School of Arts and Science (GSAS) and of the College of Arts and Science (CAS), the Divisional Deans, and the Dean of A&S Administration.

Term: Three years for the elected members, and two members elected each year from the appropriate academic divisions.

Structure: The Chair of the Committee is elected annually from among its nine voting members. The faculty members of the Committee may meet periodically without the Deans. The terms of both elected and ex officio members extend through the summer (i.e., 12-month term), in the event that the Dean needs the advice of the Committee during this period. The chair of the committee shall set the meeting’s agenda in consultation with the Dean and other members of P&P. The P&P Committee should normally meet no less frequently than once each month during the regular academic year.

Time commitment: This committee meets at least once a month during the academic year. The meetings last 1 -1.5 hours.

Scroll To Top

 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROMOTION AND TENURE
Function: To review departmental recommendations for promotion and tenure, to provide advice to the Dean of the FAS on such recommendations, and to ensure that the standards of the FAS for promotion and tenure are maintained. Voting to elect members to this committee is limited to tenured and tenure-track faculty members of the FAS whose cases are reviewed by this committee; this excludes continuing contract faculty, faculty members of the Department of Mathematics in CIMS, faculty members of the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, and faculty members of the Institute of Fine Arts.

Composition: Twelve tenured full professors, six elected by FAS and six appointed by the Dean of the FAS, with two elected and two appointed from each academic division. In addition, membership shall be limited to faculty from departments and centers whose tenure and promotion cases are reviewed by this committee.

Term: Three years, with two members elected and two appointed each year from the appropriate academic divisions.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its Chair annually from among the twelve members of the FAS. The Committee shall determine its procedures.

Time commitment: The time requirement varies depending on the schedule.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON CONTINUING CONTRACT FACULTY PROMOTION
Function: To review departmental recommendations for promotion, to provide advice to the Dean of the FAS on such recommendations, and to ensure that the standards of the FAS under the Guidelines for Reappointment and Promotion for clinical faculty and language lecturers. Voting to elect members to this committee is limited to continuing contract faculty members of the FAS whose cases are reviewed by this committee; this excludes tenured/tenure track faculty, faculty members in CIMS, faculty members of the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, and faculty members of the Institute of Fine Arts.

Composition: Ten full time faculty members: eight elected senior contract faculty with two from each division and two from Expository Writing. An additional two senior contract faculty appointed by the Dean of FAS. The Dean of the Faculty, the Divisional Deans, and the Associate Dean of Faculty Advancement may attend committee meetings without vote and with voice confined to procedural issues or responses to questions by the Committee.

Term: Three years (for the duration of the pilot period)

Structure: The Committee shall elect its Chair annually from among the eight elected members of the FAS.

Time commitment: TBD

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON GRADUATE CURRICULUM AND FINANCIAL AID
Function: To review and evaluate proposals for instructors, courses, degree programs, and GSAS rules and requirements, and to recommend them to the full faculty for approval at the FAS Full Faculty Meetings; to approve non-full-time GSAS faculty dissertation committee members or readers; and to review annually the above and report the findings and any recommendations to the Deans of the FAS, the GSAS and the FAS faculty. The committee also engages in issues of educational policy and makes recommendations for the improvement and assessment of quality in the graduate curriculum. Finally, the committee evaluates and makes recommendations to the Deans of the GSAS and the FAS concerning the financial aid policies and procedures in the GSAS.

Composition: Seven elected eligible members of the FAS, no fewer than two faculty from each academic division, no less than one of whom from each division must be tenured or tenure-track, who have taught at least one graduate level course in the last five years or otherwise been active in the graduate program; one doctoral student and one master's student. The master's student would be the president of the Master's Program Board or his or her designee. The PhD student would be the president of the Graduate Student Government, or designee if the president is not a doctoral student or is unable to attend. The Dean of the FAS and the Dean and Vice Dean of the GSAS serve ex officio.

Term: Three years for faculty members, with two members elected each year from the appropriate academic divisions. One year for graduate student members.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its Chair annually from among the six elected members of the FAS. The Chair becomes a member of the Advisory Committee on Policy and Planning. The student members shall not vote when instructors are considered for approval.

Time commitment: The committee meets about 5 times a year; meetings last 2.5-3 hours.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON UNDERGRADUATE CURRICULUM
Function: To review and evaluate proposals for, courses, degree programs, and requirements of the CAS, and to recommend them to the full faculty for approval at the FAS Full Faculty Meetings; and to review annually the above and report the findings and any recommendations to the Deans of the FAS, the CAS, and the FAS faculty. The committee also engages in issues of educational policy and makes recommendations for the improvement and assessment of quality in the undergraduate curriculum.

Composition: Ten elected eligible members of the FAS; no fewer than three faculty from each academic division, no fewer than two of whom from each division must be tenured or tenure-track; three undergraduate students (the President of the Undergraduate Student Council of the CAS or his/her designee and two students appointed by the Dean of the CAS, one from each of the other academic divisions). The committee also includes the Faculty Director of CAS Global Curriculum, the Dean of the FAS, and the Dean and Associate Dean of the CAS, and the Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, all of whom serve ex officio.

Term: Three years for faculty members, with three members, one from each academic division, elected each year. One year for undergraduate student members.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its Chair annually from among the nine elected members of the FAS. The Chair shall become a member of the Advisory Committee on Policy and Planning.

Time commitment: The committee meets about 3 times a semester for 1-1.5 hours.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON STUDENT DISCIPLINE
Jurisdiction: Pursuant to §6430 of the New York State Education Law, all members of the New York University community are subject to the University’s Rules for the Maintenance of Public Order. University Bylaw 79(b) authorizes schools to establish rules for the guidance and conduct of students. University Bylaw 80 provides that the faculty of each school has disciplinary authority over its students and grants the University Senate power to act in situations involving more than one college or school. University Bylaw 60(c) also grants the Senate jurisdiction over educational matters and regulations affecting more than one school.

Under this authority the Faculty of Arts and Science has established a standing Committee on Student Discipline to implement policies, rules, and procedures for students in the College of Arts and Science and the Graduate School of Arts and Science. Cases involving one or more students from one of these schools and any individual whose affiliation is outside of these schools are under the jurisdiction of the Student Disciplinary Procedures established by the University Senate.

Function: To implement student discipline policies, rules, and procedures under its jurisdiction, the Faculty of Arts and Science maintains a standing Committee on Student Discipline. Its functions are to recommend rules for the guidance and conduct of students in the College of Arts and Science and the Graduate School of Arts and Science; to establish policies, rules, and procedures for the adjudication of student disciplinary infractions; and to investigate alleged student offenses, conduct hearings on complaints against students, and imposed appropriate sanctions. Disciplinary offenses within the jurisdiction of the committee include but are not limited to:

cheating, plagiarism, falsification of data or sources, forgery of academic documents in attempt to defraud;
destruction, theft, or unauthorized use of laboratory data, library or research materials, computer resources, or university property;
disruption of academic events or interference with access to classrooms, laboratories, or academic offices;
actual or threatened violence against, or assault or harassment of a student, instructor, staff member, or administrator.
Cases of behavioral misconduct in the committee’s jurisdiction include those that fall within the University’s Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy and Complaint Procedures for Students. The committee does not have jurisdiction over cases that fall within the University’s Sexual Misconduct, Relationship Violence, and Stalking Policy.

The committee need not report individual cases, but from time to time, or as charged, shall report to the faculty on its work and on its recommendations for the establishment of policies, rules, and procedures within its jurisdiction.

Composition: Nine elected full-time members of the faculty on continuing or tenure-line appointments who provide instruction in the College and/or Graduate School, with three members from each academic division (humanities, social science, natural science); three students from GSAS, and three students from CAS, also distributed across the academic divisions. The student members will be appointed by the relevant deans in consultation with the appropriate Student Councils or other student governance bodies, and additional students may be appointed in consultation with such student governance bodies as necessary for the conduct of hearings. The Deans of Students of CAS and GSAS shall be ex officio members of the committee, with voice but without vote.

Terms of Membership: Three years for the elected faculty members, with three members elected one each year from each of the academic divisions. One year for student members; or, if ad hoc, as required for the hearing of business.

Structure: The committee convenes for an organization meeting as soon as possible after the beginning of the fall semester and meets thereafter only as necessary for the conduct of business. The committee Chair is elected annually at the fall organizational meeting from among the nine elected faculty members.

Time commitment: This committee meets once a semester and then on an “as needed basis” as issues arise.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCE
Function: To receive, investigate, and make recommendations concerning grievances with respect to procedural matters pertaining to promotion and tenure decisions, reappointment decisions, as well as other matters and decisions that involve members of the FAS as detailed in the Faculty Handbook; report recommendations to the Dean of the FAS and, if appropriate, to the FAS. Some grievances may not be in the purview of this Committee, and the Committee, in consultation with the Dean of the FAS, may recommend a more appropriate forum within the University.

Composition: Nine tenured full professors elected by the FAS, with three members from each academic division, and six at large continuing contract faculty (senior language lecturer, clinical associate and full professors), two from the Expository Writing Program and four from other units in FAS. Sitting department chairs and program heads may not serve on the Committee on Grievance.

Term: Three years.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its Chair annually from among its members. The Chair will appoint a subcommittee consisting of a minimum of three members to review each case and report its recommendations to the full Committee. Members of the Committee shall not sit on a subcommittee dealing with a grievance from a faculty member from the same department. Subcommittees for grievances pertaining to a tenured/tenure track faculty member must have one member from each academic division. Continuing contract faculty may not sit on a grievance pertaining to a tenured/tenure track faculty member.

Time commitment: This committee meets only as needed when issues arise. This committee may not be required to act in a given academic year.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Function: To seek, receive, and make nominations for standing committees as well as special committees of the FAS or of the University as requested by the FAS Dean; to verify the online ballot as uploaded by the FAS Dean’s office; to certify election results; and to fill vacancies on standing committees, based on the results of previous ballots for the respective committees; and to develop nominations and conduct elections on an ad-hoc basis, as requested by the Dean of the FAS. On an annual basis, the committee shall develop a slate of candidates for vacancies on standing FAS committees, including the Committee on Nominations and Elections. The Committee shall present this slate to the FAS at a scheduled FAS Full Faculty meeting and accept additional nominations from the floor. The Committee shall ensure that all academic divisions are represented on all committees at all times (e.g., when an elected member of a Committee is absent because of leave or resignation), except for committees with no divisional requirements on membership, where the Committee shall ensure that the slate of candidates includes all academic divisions.

Voting in FAS elections should take place on-line through a suitable authenticated electronic mechanism by April 1. The entire slate should be available on-line with links to their faculty profiles. Nominations and Elections and the Dean’s Office shall announce the results of the election by May 1.

A survey shall be sent to all FAS full time faculty in September of each year listing all the FAS Committees and requesting faculty to indicate any committees on which they would be willing to serve.

Composition: Nine elected eligible members of the FAS; six tenured or tenure-track faculty, two members from each division, and three continuing contract faculty.

Term: Three years, with two members elected each year from the appropriate academic division.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its chair annually from among its members.

Time commitment: This committee meets once or twice each year. On their own, committee members contact prospective nominees via email and phone.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON UNDERGRADUATE ACADEMIC STANDARDS
Function: To make recommendations to the Deans of the FAS and the CAS on requests from students for waivers from stated requirements for graduation or from requirements for maintenance of good standing as a student in the CAS.

Composition: Seven elected eligible members of the FAS; no fewer than two faculty from each academic division, no less than one of whom from each division must be tenured or tenure-track. The Deans of the FAS and the CAS are ex officio members.

Term: Three years, with two faculty members elected each year from the appropriate academic divisions.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its Chair annually from among the six elected members of the FAS.

Time commitment: This committee meets 2-3 times semester. Each meeting is 2 hours or longer.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON INFORMATION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LIBRARY SERVICES
Function: To ensure that the FAS faculty’s diverse needs for information technology are served by NYU IT Services and by the NYU libraries This FAS Committee will communicate with University-wide standing committees that track IT Services available for research and teaching, including on-line instruction.

Composition: Ten elected eligible members of the FAS; no fewer than three faculty from each academic division, no fewer than two of whom from each division must be tenured or tenure-track, and one undergraduate student elected by the CAS Student Council, chosen in the spring prior to service to serve a one-year term. The Vice-President in charge of IT Services, the Senior Vice Provost for Undergraduate Academic Affairs, the Dean of the Libraries and the Vice-Dean of GSAS are ex officio members.

Term: Three years for faculty, with three members elected each year from the appropriate academic division. One year for student members.

Structure: The Committee shall elect its chair annually from among its members.

Time commitment: This committee meets at least once a semester, then as needed.

Scroll To Top

 

COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEES AND RULES

*COMMITTEE TERM – UNTIL SERVICE IS COMPLETE (1 YEAR) *

Function: To review the functions and structures of standing Committees of the FAS, to ensure that the Committees serve the interests of the FAS, and to make appropriate recommendations for changes. This Committee shall meet at least once every five years or on an ad hoc basis if called into service by the FAS or the Dean of the FAS. This Committee shall function only to conduct its business (e.g., for one semester or for one academic year), report to the FAS, and then dissolve.

Composition: Six tenured faculty elected by the Tenured/Tenure Track Faculty, with two from each academic division, plus three continuing contract faculty at the rank of associate or full professor, elected by the Continuing Contract Faculty, with one from each academic division. All Deans are ex officio members.

Term: Whatever time is required to fulfill its function.

Structure: The Chair of the Committee shall be elected from among the six elected members of the FAS. Nominations for the elected members shall be made on an ad hoc basis by the Committee on Nominations and Elections.