Upon entering CAS, all students who have declared a major will receive primary advisement from their major department(s), in addition to a CAS academic advisor.  All students in or entering CAS must declare a major prior to their Junior year, unless they are on probation during their transition. In addition, all students entering CAS must complete the degree requirements (found on this degree progress worksheet and listed below). 
Degree Requirements for CAS Students:
1.Total Credits - Completion of 128 credits, of which 64 credits must be completed in the College (courses prefixed with “UA”).
2.Grade Point Average (GPA) - A final minimum grade point average of 2.00, both cumulative and in the major is required for graduation.
3.Major - Students must complete a major offered through the College of Arts and Science. Please refer to the CAS Majors/Minors page for majors offered at CAS and utilize the CAS Major Declaration Processes spreadsheet.
4.The College Core Curriculum (Core) - These requirements will be discussed during the LS-to-CAS Transition Orientation Session before transitioning to CAS.
5.Residency Requirement – Students must take at least 64 credits at CAS (courses prefixed with “UA”). Additionally, students may take no more than 16 credits outside CAS. As a reminder, Advanced Test Credits (AP/IB/A-Level, etc.) do not count towards CAS Residency.
Current LS students interested in transitioning to CAS who would like to speak with a CAS Advisor can visit CAS Advising Pop-in Hours on Wednesdays at 10am - 12:30pm (Eastern Time). During that Wednesday morning time slot, a transfer/transition student advisor will be available to answer questions.
If you are a current CAS student, who has already transitioned, feel free to to contact your CAS academic advisor OR visit CAS Advising Pop-In Hours.
*Please keep in mind, CAS academic advising appointments and drop-in advising other than Wednesday mornings are for students who have already transitioned to CAS.

LS to CAS FAQs
Preparing For Your LS-to-CAS Transition
I’m studying away from New York during the semester of my transition, what do I need to know?
Students who are currently studying away from New York should still complete all the necessary steps for transition - i.e. complete the LS-to-CAS transition portal, attend a transition orientation session, and declare their major. Please note that many of the LS-to-CAS transition orientation sessions will be held via Zoom and will accommodate students in different time zones. 
For any questions about your transition while studying away feel free to email cas.newstudents@nyu.edu.
How will my LS Core courses transfer to CAS?
For a list of how LS courses transfer to CAS, please view the LS to CAS Core Equivalencies. Generally speaking, successful completion of the LS Core satisfies most CAS Core requirements, excluding the Foundations of Scientific Inquiry and Foreign Language requirements. For more information regarding the CAS Core Curriculum go to CAS College Core Curriculum.
How do I get cleared for registration during my transition semester?
As a LS student who is eligible to transition to CAS, you will be automatically cleared by the CAS Advising Center after attending one of the mandatory LS-to-CAS Transition Orientation Sessions. For guidance on what to take for the coming semester, you should consult your major advisor. If you are unsure who to contact within your major department, check out the CAS Major Declaration Processes spreadsheet! For all future semesters, you will need to connect with your major department for registration clearance - the CAS Advising Center will not clear you after the semester of your transition. 
If you are a student on probation, you must connect with your current LS advisor for registration clearance.
How do CAS departments and faculty compare to LS departments and faculty?
CAS departments vary widely depending upon the size, popularity, and culture of the department. Some major departments are small and allow for more one on one interaction with faculty members, while others (e.g., Economics, Psychology, some science majors) house over 200 students and feel more impersonal. Students with questions about major departments should speak to their CAS Academic Advisor.
How do I declare my major?
Students must declare their major by contacting their major department directly - check out the CAS Major Declaration Processes spreadsheet for more specific details! You can also find a list of CAS major departments and links to their websites on the CAS Majors & Minors.
How do I delcare a joint major?
As a joint major, you only need to declare with one of the major departments. When you speak to one of the departments make it clear that you are declaring a joint major. Please note, it is important that you speak to both departments of your joint major for advising. For example, if you are Mathematics and Computer Science joint major, you only need to contact one of these departments to declare your joint major, but you must be in contact with both departments for academic advising.
Why can’t I declare more than one major at a time during transition?
As a transitioning student, you will not matriculate into the College of Arts and Science until the semester following your transition. Therefore, the Albert system will only allow major departments to add one major before you officially transition into CAS. During your first semester as a CAS student, you can declare your second major by contacting that major department directly.
How do I get assigned my major/departmental advisor?
Once you have declared your major, you will receive a major advisor who will clear you for registration moving forward. If you are unsure who your major advisor is, contact the major department directly.
When do I go to my major advisor vs. my CAS Academic Advisor?
Major Advisor
After declaring your major, you will receive primary advisement from your major department. Major advising frequently involves faculty and is intended to provide a more focused concentration on the knowledge, skills, and experiences associated with a particular discipline. Example topics covered: major prerequisites, requirements, sequencing, 4-year plan, electives, departmental policies, graduate school, internships, etc.
CAS Academic Advisor
Even after declaring a major, students may continue to visit their CAS Academic Advisor. Your CAS Academic Advisor can provide advisement on issues related to College and University policies and procedures, study away, joint degree programs offered with other schools at the University, and special programs (e.g., free tutoring, study skills workshops, leadership opportunities and activities for international students).
Why isn’t my CAS or Major advisor posted in NYU Connect?
CAS Academic Advisors WILL NOT be posted in NYU Connect until your first semester as a CAS student. The same timeline applies to your major advisor. However, if you are still unsure who your major advisor is, contact the department directly.
What are some helpful CAS resources?
University Learning Center (for course assistance and academic skills workshops)
Preprofessional Advising Center (for Prehealth, Prelaw and Business Studies students)
Wasserman Center for Career Development (for career advising and internship opportunities)
University Counseling Services
Accelerated Bachelor’s Master’s Program
Starting CAS this fall, I want to take summer classes. Who do I contact for registration clearance?
Since you won’t officially become a CAS student until the start of the fall semester, you can work with your LS advisor for summer registration clearance. However, we highly recommend that you consult your major department regarding any courses you plan to take for your major. Your CAS academic advisor can also help you select courses for any pending CAS Core requirements that you still need to fulfill.
How do I search for CAS Summer course offerings?
You can find CAS’ Summer course offerings by searching the Summer section of NYU Albert’s Course Search. CAS classes can be found in the College of Arts and Science section and end with the suffix “-UA” (e.g., CAS Calculus I is MATH-UA 121).
After Your LS-CAS Transition
Where is my homebase?
Once your transition to CAS is complete, your homebase will be The College of Arts and Science. The CAS Advising Center is located at 25 West Fourth Street on the 5th Floor, however major departments are located at various locations around Washington Square. To find your major department’s location, go to CAS Majors and Minors. 
CAS Advising Center 
25 West Fourth Street, 5th Floor
(P): 212.998.8130
How do I make an appointment with my CAS Academic Advisor?
Students who have transitioned to CAS can make an appointment with a CAS Academic Advisor by:
contacting the CAS Advising Center (212.998.8130)
making an appointment on NYU Connect (Instructions)
coming in for CAS Pop-in Advising to meet with a part-time advisor
How do I declare my minor?
Minors should only be declared once you are a CAS student. Minors that are declared before your first semester in CAS, will have to be re-declared once you are a CAS student.
Students may declare their minor by contacting their minor department directly - check out the CAS Major Declaration Processes spreadsheet for more specific details! You can find a list of CAS minors at CAS Majors and Minors.
How do I get involved in the CAS College Cohort Program?
As a transition student, you will join the the College Cohort Program as a junior (most likely). During junior and senior year, the College Cohort Program expands into a class-wide cohort, whose objectives now look towards life after CAS. For juniors, this class-wide cohort experience will be shaped by the Junior Class Board, which is a group of engaged student leaders led by the Junior Class President. Working in conjunction with campus resources such as CAS Alumni Relations and Wasserman, the Junior Class Board will sponsor events targeted toward the needs and concerns that typically characterize the junior year. Look out for the Class Board emails!
In addition check out a number of our Student Leadership positions available to you as a CAS student!

Core Requirements
Writing as Inquiry
Physical Science

Life Science
Quantitative Reasoning
Texts and Ideas
Cultures and Contexts
Societies and the Social Sciences
Expressive Culture
Foreign Language
 
Expository Writing 
Writing as Inquiry:
Writing as Exploration (WREX-UF 101) 
AND 
Writing as Critical Inquiry (WRCI-UF 102)
Prior to Fall 2020, these courses were known as Writing I and II (WRI-UF 101 & 102)
 
Foundations of Scientific Inquiry
Physical Science:
History of the Universe (HOU-UF 101)
OR
Science of Technology (SCTEC-UF 101)
Life Science:
Life Science (LISCI-UF 101)
OR 
Environmental Studies (ENSTU-UF 101) 
Quantitative Reasoning
No LS course equivalent (refer to the CAS College Core Curriculum for ways to satisfy this Core requirement)
 
Foundations of Contemporary Culture
Texts and Ideas:
Arts and Cultures across Antiquity (ACA-UF 101)
AND
Arts and Cultures towards the Crossroads (ACC-UF 102)
Cultures and Contexts:
Arts and Cultures Sequence (ACA-UF 101, ACC-UF 102, and ACM-UF 201)
AND
Global Works and Society Sequence (GWA-UF 101, GWC-UF 102, and GWM-UF 201)
Societies and the Social Sciences:
Global Works and Society Sequence (GWA-UF 101, GWC-UF 102, and GWM-UF 201)
Expressive Culture:
Arts and Cultures Sequence (ACA-UF 101, ACC-UF 102, and ACM-UF 201)
NOTES: 
In two cases, student may simultaneously fulfill multiple CAS CORE components: 
A student who completes the Arts and Cultures Sequence in LS fulfills the following CAS Core requirements
oTexts and Ideas
oExpressive Culture 
A student who completes the Arts and Cultures Sequence and the Global Works and Society Sequence in LS fulfills the following CAS Core requirements:
oTexts and Ideas
oCultures and Contexts
oSocieties and the Social Sciences
oExpressive Culture
Beginning in Fall 2023, LS Core students were given the option to take a Global Cultures course in place of Global Works and Society Modernity (GWM-UF 201) or Arts and Cultures Modernity (ACM-UF 201).  Students who choose to take a Global Cultures course in place of one of these Modernity courses will still satisfy the CAS Core Foundations of Contemporary Culture requirements. 
Prior to Fall 2020, the Arts and Cultures Sequence was known as the Cultural Foundations Sequence. Similarly, the Global Works and Society Sequence was previously known as the Social Foundations Sequence.  
Foreign Language
No LS course equivalent (refer to the CAS College Core Curriculum for ways to satisfy this Core requirement)
External Transfers
As a CAS student you will begin an exciting and challenging college career at the College of Arts and Science (CAS). Each year, transfer students come to CAS from colleges and universities all over the world. Together they make up a large percentage of our population, and we welcome the diversity and energy transfer students bring to our campus.
Once attendance is confirmed with NYU Admissions, transfer students will be contacted by CAS New Students via cas.newstudents@nyu.edu to go through an orientation process, both virtual and in-person. During the orientation process, students will register for courses, learn about NYU, and get ready to make the transition to New York City.
If you have questions about applying to NYU as a transfer student please contact NYU Admissions and visit their website for more information.
 
Fall transfer students will go through a virtual advising and registration process in the summer to get registered for courses. Students will also be invited to a mandatory two-day orientation program the week of Monday, August 25th. Throughout the summer and early September, transfer students are also encouraged to participate in NYU Welcome events. Outreach begins in mid-May for newly admitted students. Until then review the resources below.
Spring transfer students will go through a virtual advising and registration process in December/January to get registered for courses.  Students will also be invited to a mandatory two-day orientation program on Thursday, January 16th and Friday, January 17th, in order to finalize registration, learn about important resources, and start building connections and community.  We also encourage students to attend NYU Spring Welcome events in January and February. 
 
EXTERNAL TRANSFER RESOURCES
Review this material to better understand CAS requirements and important procedures for admitted transfer students. You must complete the Transfer Virtual Advising Portal, emailed to you only after confirmation of transfer to CAS, in order to begin the registration process.
We are excited to welcome you to the College of Arts and Science (CAS)!
Internal students who transfer to CAS will be contacted by the New Students office to attend an Internal Transfer Orientation during the semester before you switch into CAS. During your Orientation, you will be introduced to the system of advising in CAS, will learn about degree requirements, and will be able to ask questions about your transfer to CAS. Attendance at a session is a requirement to be cleared for registration.
In order to confirm your transfer to the College of Arts and Science, you need to complete and accept your offer with NYU Admissions through Albert. Please visit the NYU Admissions website for information on transferring.
New Transfers - Things to Do:
Complete the CAS Virtual Advising Portal (will be emailed to you by cas.newstudents@nyu.edu).
Attend Orientation Session in person or virtually (RSVP available after you complete the CAS Virtual Advising Portal).
If all Orientation sessions have passed by the time you are accepted for transfer, an asynchronous Orientation option will be available for you.
Review resources below:
Resources
CAS Academic Advising
GLS Transfer Students
International Students
Prehealth Students
Prelaw Students
Welcome to the College of Arts and Science (CAS)! We are excited to welcome you as a full-time student and work with you during your transition to the College and beyond.
All students transitioning to CAS are introduced to the College Advising Center and their Academic Advisors through a mandatory LS-to-CAS Transition Orientation Session. Attendance at a session is a requirement to be cleared for the following semester’s course registration.
During the LS-to-CAS Transition Orientation Session you will learn more about:
CAS Academic Advising
Major Department Information
CAS Degree Requirements and Liberal Studies Core Equivalency
The College Cohort Program
CAS Academics + Social Resources
As a reminder, students in transition are still Liberal Studies students, and therefore should still be in contact with their LS Advisor regarding any academic or personal concerns.
For any questions about your transition, contact cas.newstudents@nyu.edu or visit CAS Pop-in Advising at 25 West Fourth Street, 5th Floor on Wednesdays at 10am - 12:30pm (Eastern Time). During that Wednesday morning time slot, a transfer/transition student advisor will be available to answer questions.
For any other questions, check the resources on the right, including the LS to CAS FAQ.

